HORIZON-CL6-2026-02-CLIMATE-02: Towards the water infrastructures of the 
future 
Call: Call 02 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 5.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 10.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or as 
an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 304. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• water infrastructures are flexible enough to face changes in hydraulic flow and pollution 
load from emerging or yet unknown contaminants to ensure that access to water and 
sanitation is protected on a long -term, recovery of safe secondary resources is secured 
and greenhouse gas emissions are reduced and ecosystems are protected; 
• water infrastructures have integrated digital solutions (e.g., smart sensors, IoT, digital 
twins and artificial intelligence) as well as citizen science to optimally operate in 
changing conditions from climate or pollution pressures, facilitate appropriate water 
pricing based on reliable monitoring of water consumption, favour recovery of material 
and limit greenhouse gas emissions; 
• water infrastructures have incorporated the necessary tools and protection to avoid cyber 
and/or terrorist attacks to ensure their resilience against malicious behaviour; 
 
• new or renewed water infrastructures are designed following ‘good practices’ to 
maximise system resilience, build redundancy, and ensure ecological and social 
sustainability; 
• water infrastructures are better designed thanks to improved predictions, robust 
assessment of impacts and implementation of appropriate mitigation measures due to 
advances on the understanding of how, when and where floods and droughts occur.  
Scope: Water infrastructures both for drinking water supply and wastewater collection and 
treatment suffer from a lack of sufficient and continuous investment across Europe. Their 
conditions are evolving differently depending on the investment capacity of local authorities 
and/or water companies, as well as the climate and pollution conditions they are exposed to. 
They are often not flexible enough to adapt to a changing and increasingly unpredictable 
environment and lack of appropriate monitoring to properly understand their functioning in 
various operating conditions. On the treatment side, the technological processes are not 
always coping with pollution load variation or new contaminants threatening human health 
and downstream ecosystems. They are also more and more exposed to the risk of malicious 
attacks, being of human or cyber nature. 
With the effect of climate change as well as the emergence of new threats from chemical, 
biological, human and cyber origins, it is necessary to develop and test a set of tools to ensure 
that water and sanitation provision is resilient now and for the future, building on the 
solutions that emerged in the sector or adapted from other sectors. 
To achieve the expected outcomes, proposals should address some or all the elements below: 
• develop and integrate modular processes and tools to improve the adaptability of 
drinking water and wastewater infrastructures to emerging pollutions and effects of 
climate change; 
• integrate Nature-based Solutions infrastructures to reduce the carbon footprint of water 
infrastructure, better manage water flows and pollutants entering sewers, and support 
biodiversity; 
• enhance the use of digital solutions, new monitoring techniques, Earth observation tools, 
digital twin technology and artificial intelligence, including for predictive analytics, 
within drinking water and wastewater infrastructures to optimise their operation, 
anticipate infrastructure challenges and pollution and improve their efficiency and 
resilience, addressing leakages, infiltration, energy consumption, recovery of materials 
and carbon footprint; 
• develop robust data sharing framework to promote secure collaboration among 
stakeholders and identify interdependencies with other critical infrastructures in a 
resilience-based approach; 
• develop tools, approaches and procedures to protect both the physical and digital water 
infrastructures against malicious attacks.  
Proposals are encouraged to explore the use of blockchain or other distributed ledger 
technologies to ensure data integrity, enable smart -contract–based service automation, and 
support novel financing or certification schemes for future water infrastructures. Given the 
high degree of integration of the topic with existing infrastructures, proposals should target a 
large variety of stakeholders ranging from universities, SMEs, water utilities, energy utilities, 
etc. 
Proposals should also seek to contribute to the further development of existing observing 
platforms and initiatives, including to the evolution of Copernicus services and the future EU 
Digital Twin on freshwater and Destination Earth. It should also contribute to define the bases 
for a FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Re -usable) sharing of data in the water 
sector in collaboration with the initiative conducted by the co -funded partnership Water 
Security for the Planet (Water4All). 
All in -situ data collected through actions funded from this call should follow INSPIRE 
principles and be available through open access repositories (e.g. Copernicus). supported by 
the European Commission. 
Proposals should also build on the results of previous projects funded under previous 
framework programmes, especially the projects related to the cluster ICT4Water. They should 
also foster complementarities and avoid overlapping with projects funded under the Mission 
Restore our Ocean and Waters by 2030 and the EU Mission on Adaptation to Climate 
Change. Finally, it should also look for collaboration with projects from Horizon Europe 
Cluster 3 in relation to security, where appropriate. The JRC may contribute with technical 
analysis and research on digital technologies for water management and monitoring, including 
real-world test cases. 
International cooperation is strongly encouraged.