HORIZON-CL6-2027-01-CIRCBIO-03: Developing novel recycling technologies for 
complex plastic materials applying biotech solutions 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 5.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 10.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 259. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• environment and society at large benefit from recyclable plastic products which can be 
recycled back into high value applications; 
• industrial value chains introduce circular plastic products on the market through 
enhanced design for recycling and solutions for effective sorting and recycling on a large 
scale; 
• industrial value chains are equipped with improved characterisation of waste from 
complex plastic materials to enable its recycling.   
Scope: The topic supports the European Green Deal, the Regulation on Packaging and 
Packaging Waste, the Waste Shipment Regulation, the Ecodesign for Sustainable Products 
Regulation and its working plan, the upcoming Circular Economy Act and contributes to 
Europe’s efforts to develop a single market for sustainable products. It also contributes to the 
new EU bioeconomy strategy, the Life Sciences Strategy and the EU Biotech Act and is 
relevant to the European Commission’s communication: ‘Building the future with nature: 
Boosting Biotechnology and Biomanufacturing in the EU’. 
Proposals should: 
• advance novel biotech solutions for recycling of complex plastic materials and products 
(multi-material/multi-layer/composites), namely in the sectors of packaging, 
construction, renewable energy infrastructure and transport; 
• propose recommendations towards fit -for-purpose regulatory risk assessments for novel 
materials and recycling technologies (i.e. hazard identification, methodological updates) 
and take into account the Safe-and-Sustainable-by-Design framework; 
• consider the latest solutions in material innovation while developing novel recycling 
solutions e.g. by application of microbes and enzymes for enhanced degradation of 
plastics; 
• demonstrate the solutions on a pilot scale involving the whole value chain.  
 
Successful proposals are expected to evaluate the feasibility, effectiveness and impact of the 
demonstrated solutions using robust evaluation methods (including lifecycle assessments such 
as product environmental footprint, where relevant) and present data and evidence about the 
economic, environmental and social costs and benefits of the developed solutions. 
Industrial value chains are expected to take part in the proposed consortia to enable a 
demonstration of the proposed solution and involve all relevant stakeholders. 
Clustering with other relevant Horizon Europe projects is encouraged.