HORIZON-CL6-2026-03-GOVERNANCE-03: Empowering the UN Decade of Ocean 
Science for Sustainable Development 
Call: Call 03 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 3.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 9.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
All international organisations are exceptionally eligible for funding. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 327. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• at least one of the outcomes of the ocean Decade: 1 - A clean ocean, 2 - A healthy and 
resilient ocean, 3 - A productive ocean, 4 - A predicted ocean, 5 - A safe ocean, 6 - An 
accessible ocean, 7- An inspiring and engaging ocean; 
• structural and long-lasting changes as per how ocean science is supported and performed 
globally, driven by initiatives developed under the Ocean Decade and continuing beyond 
it.  
 
Scope: The United Nations Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable Development (2021 –
2030) aims at mobilising the global scientific community, policymakers, industry, and civil 
society to advance ocean science and generate knowledge that supports the sustainable 
management of the ocean. The initiative aims to reverse the decline in ocean health and 
ensure that ocean science can fully support countries in achieving the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development. This topic aims at further consolidating international cooperation, 
through European Leadership, and at ensuring that key processes, initiatives and structures 
that have been put in place through the Decade continue after its end. 
Proposals should: 
• provide substantial contribution to key global efforts, including capacity development 
and international coordination, undertaken through endorsed Ocean Decade 
Programmes, Actions, Decade Collaborative Centres and Decade Coordination Offices, 
or for the implementation of the Vision 2030 white papers 328 or of the Ocean Decade 
data & information strategy 329; 
• have consideration for how to achieve longer -term sustainability and legacy of Ocean 
Decade activities; 
• choose the scope of activities in alignment with one or several of the priorities indicated 
in the EC -RTD roadmap for Cooperation on the UN Decade of Ocean Science 330 
namely the EU Mission Restore our Ocean and Waters, the All -Atlantic Ocean Research 
and Innovation Alliance, making marine data, knowledge and R&I solutions readily 
available); 
• In line with the above -mentioned roadmap, address at least one of the following Decade 
Challenges: Challenge 1 “Understand and beat marine pollution”, Challenge 2 “Protect 
and restore ecosystems and biodiversity”, Challenge 6 “Increase community resilience to 
ocean and coastal risks”, Challenge 7 “Sustainably expand the Global Ocean Observing 
System”, Challenge 8 “Create a digital representation of the ocean”, Challenge 9 “Skills, 
knowledge, technology and participation for all” and Challenge 10 “Restore society’s 
relationship with the ocean”.  
International cooperation is encouraged.