HORIZON-CL6-2027-01-CIRCBIO-02: Enhancing ecodesign and circularity of 
construction products 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 5.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 10.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 255. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• material and product manufacturers apply ecodesign principles in developing and 
manufacturing products that are safe and contribute significantly to EU climate, zero 
pollution, circular economy, and biodiversity goals, e.g., through biodiversity -enhancing 
circular design; 
• consumers and professionals benefit from more sustainable and circular products, i.e. 
durable, safe, reliable, reusable, reparable, upgradable, recyclable products including 
increased recycled content.   
Scope: Construction is one of the most resource -intensive sectors of the economy. The 
construction sector is responsible for almost 39% of the EU’s total waste generation. 256 
Greenhouse gas emissions from material extraction, manufacturing of construction products, 
construction and renovation of buildings are estimated at 5 -12% of total national GHG 
emissions.257 Greater material efficiency could save 80% of those emissions. 258 Cement, steel, 
aluminium and plastics are the materials contributing by 15% to EU carbon emissions. 
Proposals should: 
• develop, test and demonstrate new and improved ecodesign of construction materials and 
products, including design for durability, reusability, reparability, separability, 
recyclability, and uptake of recycled content. Solutions promoting assembly and 
disassembly of products should be considered, and solutions for the reuse of recovered 
materials; 
 
• assess and provide recommendations for mechanisms and incentives to reward design 
for circularity, disassembly, and product durability – such as extended guarantees, VAT 
reduction, and others –, and analyse potential trade -offs and propose solutions to 
overcome them.   
The environmental performance of the proposed solutions in comparison to existing products 
should be evaluated from a lifecycle perspective using product environmental footprint 
methodology wherever applicable. The possible presence of contaminants in construction 
products and waste and its impact on circularity must be taken into account. Reuse and 
recycling options should involve quality control and assessment. 
Proposals should seek to contribute to the goals of the New European Bauhaus (NEB) 
initiative. Joint activities with NEB projects are encouraged. Proposals should also seek to 
build synergies with construction -focused projects funded under Clusters 6 and 4, and are 
strongly encouraged to organise joint activities, ensure synergies and undertake clustering 
activities with those. Participation of partners from (associated) countries with growing 
construction sectors is encouraged. 
Proposals should seek to involve SMEs and regional ecosystems. 
The topic supports the European Green Deal, the Construction Products Regulation, the 
Ecodesign for Sustainable Products Regulation and its working plan, and Europe’s efforts to 
develop a single market for sustainable products.