HORIZON-CL6-2027-01-BIODIV-08: Fostering common farmland birds and mammals 
for resilient food production systems 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
 
conditions exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: The proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 129. 
 
Expected Outcome:   
Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• land managers, farmers, conservation organizations, researchers, policymakers, and 
agribusinesses are equipped with the knowledge and tools to implement practices that 
enhance habitats for farmland birds and mammals, thereby improving pest control, 
supporting pollination, and strengthening agricultural resilience; 
• challenges, measures, and needs of land managers, farmers and conservation 
organizations are known and supported via appropriate incentives to facilitate the wide 
adoption of bird- and mammal-friendly practices.   
Scope: Maintaining and improving farmland bird populations is crucial for both conservation 
and the long -term sustainability of food production systems. Farmland birds and mammals 
provide valuable ecosystem services, such as pest control, pollination, and seed dispersal, 
which are essential for resilient agriculture. Focusing on birds ensures the preservation of 
these services, while also contributing to broader biodiversity goals. Additionally, including 
farmland mammals in the research helps assess potential synergies and trade -offs in pest 
control, providing a more holistic ecological understanding. As farmland birds and mammals 
can cause damage by consuming crops, it is important that research seeks the correct 
equilibrium between the utility of these animals and the damage they can cause. This broader 
perspective allows for more informed decisions on how to design farming systems that are not 
only beneficial to bird populations but also support the protection and restoration of healthy 
ecosystems. Overall, the objective is to foster sustainable agriculture that enhances both 
productivity and biodiversity, and offers opportunities for nature restoration. 
 
Proposals should: 
• synthetize the impact of various farming practices on both farmland bird populations and 
agricultural productivity, while also considering farmland mammals for a more 
comprehensive picture. Also, assessing the role and impact of specific bird species in 
pest control and soil health to better understand their contributions in agricultural 
landscapes and to the sustainability of farming systems; 
• develop participatory research programs that encourage landscape -level collaboration 
among farmers, land managers, and conservationists. These programs should focus on 
identifying and testing locally tailored bird -friendly solutions while addressing farmers' 
perceptions, needs, and challenges in adopting these practices; 
• improve existing incentives (also under CAP), or potentially create new targeted ones to 
promote the adoption of bird - and mammal-friendly solutions. These incentives should 
be geographically relevant and designed to address farmers' specific challenges, while 
fostering collaboration among farmers, land managers, and conservationists to ensure 
effective implementation and long-term sustainability; 
• design a comprehensive farmer education program focused on bird -friendly practices 
and their economic benefits. This should include advisory services with ecologists, field 
days, and demonstration farms showcasing successful bird -focused measures in 
profitable farming systems. Also assess effectiveness of peer -to-peer learning networks 
and highlight the economic co -benefits of these practices (e.g., pest reduction and 
pollination); 
• conduct research to assess the effectiveness of scaling proven biodiversity -friendly 
farming practices, such as creating and preserving semi -natural habitats of farmland or 
other farming practices and in consideration of at least maintaining productivity. Focus 
on successful models, that can be applied to different regions, and evaluate their impact 
on bird and selected mammal populations.  
The projects under this topic are relevant to the EU Vision for Agriculture and Food, the 
biodiversity strategy for 2030, the EU Birds and Habitats Directives, the EU Action Plan for 
the Development of Organic Production 130, the EU Nature Restoration Regulation and Target 
10 of the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework. 
Proposals must implement the multi -actor approach, involving a range of stakeholders, 
particularly farmers and land managers, to ensure that the knowledge and needs from various 
sectors are integrated and the results are impactful. 
Proposals should, where relevant, build on previous EU and nationally funded projects, 
including Horizon 2020, Horizon Europe, and LIFE, and the Agroecology Partnership; and 
foresee appropriate resources to ensure close cooperation with the EC Knowledge Centre for 
Biodiversity (KCBD) and its Science Service. 
 
