HORIZON-CL6-2027-02-CLIMATE-02: Strengthening evidence -based policies for the 
resilience of European agriculture and forestry and related supply chains against crises 
and systemic risks 
Call: Call 02 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or 
as an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to ensure a balanced portfolio, and to achieve the expected 
outcomes of this topic, grants will be awarded to proposals not only in 
order of ranking but also to one proposal within the area A that is the 
highest ranked, and one proposal highest ranked within the area B, 
provided that the proposals attain all thresholds. Proposals shall clearly 
indicate the area they are applying to. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 307. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• societal and political actors have a better understanding of how European agriculture and 
forestry, as well as agri -food and forest -based supply chains, are exposed to and 
impacted by a combination of complex systemic risks and crises; 
• EU, national, regional and local decision -makers have access to improved analytical 
capacity and recommendations on policy instruments and strategies for assessing, 
preventing and managing systemic risks and crises; 
• the compounding, cascading and amplifying roles of climate change for different kinds 
of risk and crises and in constraining options for crisis response are better understood, 
facilitating their systematic integration into decision-making; 
• the compounding, amplifying and/or mitigating role of trade for different kinds of risk 
and crises involving supply chain effects is better understood.  
 
Scope: The 2020 and 2025 Strategic Foresight Reports 308 put forward resilience as a compass 
for EU policies. Resilience is defined as the ability not only to withstand and cope with 
challenges but also to undergo transitions, in a sustainable, fair, and democratic manner. 
Adopting a transformative, proactive and forward-looking approach to resilience is needed for 
the EU to thrive in turbulent times, anticipate new challenges and create a safe space for 
citizens and businesses. Against this background, proposals should target several systemic 
risks and crises (e.g., sanitary, environmental, economic, geopolitical, biodiversity, 
demographic, technological) that are causing, or likely to cause, significant socio -economic 
impacts directly or indirectly affecting European agriculture or forestry, and agri -food or 
forest-based supply chains, considering potential compound, cascading and amplifier effects 
under climate change. 
The actions under this topic are relevant to the EU policies related to the EU Vision for 
Agriculture and Food, the EU Forest Strategy, the common agricultural policy, and the 
forthcoming European Climate Adaptation Plan. 
Proposals should: 
• improve analytical capacity on:        
 the exposure of the agricultural or forestry sectors and of agri -food or forest -based 
supply chains and their agents, including consumers, to (interacting) systemic risks 
and crises, including compound, cascading and amplifier effects related to climate 
change and trade disruptions;    
 the assessment and measurement of the propagation of shocks and short -, medium- 
and long-term impacts (social, economic, environmental including biodiversity) of 
those (interacting) systemic risks and crises on the agricultural or forestry sectors 
and on agri -food or forest -based supply chains and their agents, at different scales 
(local to global) and considering the vulnerability of different groups (e.g. age, 
gender or other social factors). Proposals should take into account the specificities 
of different types of supply chains, e.g., in terms of length, organisation, critical 
dependencies, considering also the role of ecosystem services and, where relevant, 
intergenerational time scales;   
• explore a range of effective socio -economic and technological (e.g., advanced digital 
technologies) options and identify leverage points to further develop integrated 
prevention, preparedness, management, adaptation and transformation strategies and 
pathways that encompass different temporal (short to long term) and spatial (global to 
local) scales to improve the resilience at each critical stage of the agri -food or forest -
based supply chains; 
 
• analyse those options with regard to societal and institutional preconditions, the costs 
and benefits, at different levels, of action versus non -action, as well as coherence, 
synergies and trade-offs with competitiveness, health and sustainability objectives.  
Proposals should either address Area A: Agriculture and agri -food supply chains, or Area B: 
Forestry and forest-based supply chains. The area (A or B) should be clearly indicated in the 
application. 
Proposals should capitalise on existing relevant research findings and tools. They should also 
ensure complementarities with other relevant EU -funded projects, including from the EU 
Missions on Adaptation to Climate Change and on Soil, and ensure synergies with other 
relevant EU initiatives and processes (e.g., Resilience Dashboards 309). 
Proposals should include a dedicated task, appropriate resources and a plan on how they will 
collaborate with other projects selected under this topic (e.g., by participating in joint 
activities, workshops, as well as common communication and dissemination activities, etc.). 
Proposals selected in Area A are also expected to collaborate with the projects selected under 
the topic HORIZON -CL6-2027-03-GOVERNANCE-01: Strengthening the resilience of 
European farmers through improved capacity in coping with risks and crises. 
Proposals should support collaborative and interdisciplinary work, involving the effective 
contribution of social sciences and humanities (SSH) disciplines in combination with science, 
technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) disciplines. 
Proposals are encouraged to consider, where relevant, the data, expertise and services offered 
by European research infrastructures310 in the environmental, biological and food domains. 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the consortium selected for 
funding. The role of the JRC would be to contribute with knowledge and expertise on 
concurrent and recurrent climate hazards (especially drought and heatwaves) and their 
amplifying effects in terms of impacts in the agricultural and forestry sectors, and to support 
exploration of high -impact low-probability events, including those linked to crossing tipping 
points.