HORIZON-CL6-2026-03-GOVERNANCE-01-two-stage: Open topic: Develop Earth 
Intelligence solutions using environmental observations and state-of-the-art AI for 
sustainable competitiveness and policy making 
Call: Call 03 - two-stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
6.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Applicants submitting a proposal for a blind evaluation (see General 
Annex F) must not disclose their organisation names, acronyms, logos 
nor names of personnel in the proposal abstract and Part B of their first-
stage application (see General Annex E). 
Eligibility The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
 
conditions exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The first-stage proposals of this topic will be evaluated blindly. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 352. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• AI-based demonstrators for Earth Intelligence tools integrating observations and socio -
economic data, for evidence -based decision making. Whereby Earth Intelligence refers 
to data-driven decision support tools with relevant research -based assessments, data, and 
options; 
• support to national, EU and international environmental policy making or 
implementation (e.g. European Climate Law, Preparedness Union Strategy, Nature 
Restoration Regulation, Paris Agreement, or Sustainable Development Goals).   
Scope: Proposals should develop and demonstrate downstream applications for a range of use 
cases (e.g. weather -, climate -related risks, environmental hazards, or biodiversity reporting) 
using broadly and intensively Earth Observation and relevant datasets for supporting 
sustainability and competitiveness through the provision of Earth Intelligence. The aim should 
be the provision of AI-driven tools and insights to public or private actors, also in the frame of 
GEO Work Programme Activities, providing observation -based evidence to include 
preparedness, resilience, sustainability, competitiveness, biodiversity -friendliness or climate 
neutrality in their operations, decision- or policymaking. 
Towards this end, the actions funded under this topic should: 
 
• engage in uptake of Earth Observation (EO) data, including output data from 
Copernicus, operational European weather satellites, in -situ systems (incl. relevant 
European Research Infrastructures data), as well as socio-economic and impact datasets; 
• follow a user -tailored, co -design approach in the development of the use cases, to 
provide innovative and competitive, fit -for-purpose information for decision and 
planning; 
• demonstrate explainability, robustness and replicability of the approach; 
• convincingly demonstrate, test or validate the developed products and delineate the plans 
to develop possible future uptake and upscaling at national and regional (incl. beyond 
EU) level for possible next steps after the research project.  
Proposals should build on most recent advances of AI approaches and models 
trained/integrating information from Earth Observations, as well as digital twins, 
developments in Destination Earth (e.g. including related projects funded under HORIZON -
INFRA-2024-TECH-01-03: New digital twins for Destination Earth) and available EURO 
HPC and EU AI Factory tools and facilities. 
Applicants are also encouraged to identify start-up and scale-ups and seek to develop business 
models and market opportunities for its products, potentially in cooperation with the project 
funded under HORIZON-CL6-2026-03-GOVERNANCE-07. 
This topic is part of the EC -ESA Earth System Science Initiative, projects should collaborate 
with related projects funded by ESA’s FuturEO programme and should towards this end 
include sufficient means and resources for effective coordination.