HORIZON-CL6-2026-02-FARM2FORK-02-two-stage: Open topic: Boosting organic 
farming for a competitive, sustainable and resilient farming sector 
Call: Call 02 - two-stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
6.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Applicants submitting a proposal for a blind evaluation (see General 
Annex F) must not disclose their organisation names, acronyms, logos 
nor names of personnel in the proposal abstract and Part B of their first-
stage application (see General Annex E). 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: the proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The first-stage proposals of this topic will be evaluated blindly. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 182. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP). 
The support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. 
The maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• farmers, advisors, agri -food chain operators, policy -makers, public funders and citizens 
benefit from new knowledge and knowledge exchange, viable innovations, practices and 
tools that boost the competitiveness, sustainability (economic, environmental, social) and 
resilience of the organic farming sector; 
• knowledge and innovations contribute to an improved sustainability of organic farming 
systems and an overall improved efficiency of the sector, leading to an increased 
attractiveness of organic farming in Europe and an improved understanding of its 
contribution to sustainability (economic, social, biodiversity, climate); 
• the EU regulatory framework for organic farming, the Common Agricultural Policy, and 
the EU’s biodiversity, zero pollution and climate policies are supported by science-based 
evidence, methodologies and standardized monitoring frameworks.   
Scope: The Vision for Agriculture and Food 183 recognises organic farming as an approach 
with potential to ensure an attractive and predictable agri -food sector where incomes enable 
farmers to thrive, while at the same time delivering several ecosystem services beneficial for 
the environment, climate and biodiversity. The Vision also recognises the importance of 
research and innovation (R&I) for sustainable farming approaches, such as organic farming, 
to thrive. At the same time, the EU Action Plan on the Development of Organic Production 184 
attaches a central role to R&I for achieving the Plan’s objectives. In line with this Action 
Plan, under Horizon Europe, the EU has funded several R&I projects addressing multiple 
aspects and challenges of organic production. The purpose of this topic is to fill remaining 
R&I needs to boost the organic farming sector in Europe. 
Proposals should increase knowledge and develop safe, viable and cost -effective innovations 
to tackle agronomic, sustainability (social, biodiversity, climate, economic), value chain 
development and/or market -related challenges of organic production. Proposals should 
develop innovations addressing land -based organic production in a range of pedo -climatic 
conditions in the EU and Associated Countries. They should demonstrate the contribution of 
these innovations to facilitating the uptake and implementation of organic production methods 
 
by relevant stakeholders, among which farmers. This should include activities to increase 
networking and knowledge and best practice exchange among farmers (both among organic 
farmers and with farmers implementing other approaches) and with other relevant actors. 
Proposals should establish sites in diverse pedo -climatic conditions to co-create, test, validate 
and upscale the innovations, and set-up a network connecting these sites. 
Both crop and livestock production systems under organic production are in scope of this 
topic. Proposals should convincingly explain how they will fill existing R&I needs in line 
with the EU Action Plan for the Development of Organic Production 185 and the Vision for 
Agriculture and Food 186. The projects under this topic are also relevant to the EU policies 
related to the objectives of the Common Agricultural Policy, as well as the EU’s biodiversity, 
zero pollution and climate policies. 
If proposals relate to some of the activities covered by the Horizon 2020 Framework 
Programme (including the CORE Organic ERA -Net), to the Horizon Europe Cluster 6 Work 
Programmes 2021-2022, 2023-2024 or 2025, to projects funded under the EU Mission Soil187, 
and/or to projects funded under the Horizon Europe Partnerships ‘Agroecology’ 188, Animal 
Health and Welfare 189 or FutureFoods 190, they should convincingly explain how they will 
build on and not duplicate them. 
Proposals should include a dedicated task, appropriate resources and a plan on how they will 
collaborate with other projects funded under this topic, as well as with other relevant ongoing 
EU-funded organic farming relevant projects, and with projects funded by the Horizon Europe 
Partnership ‘Agroecology’ or other Horizon Europe Partnerships. Activities falling under the 
scope of the topics ‘HORIZON-CL6-2027-01-BIODIV-09: Enhancing the competitiveness of 
organic crop breeding: focus on intercropping adapted varieties’ and ‘HORIZON -CL6-2027-
02-FARM2FORK-04: Improving understanding of the contribution of the organic farming 
sector to sustainability’ in this Work Programme are out of the scope of this topic. 
Proposals must implement the multi -actor approach and ensure adequate involvement of 
farmers and other relevant stakeholders involved in the organic farming agri-food value chain, 
taking into account a gender -sensitive and inclusive approach. The type and nature of 
stakeholders involved besides farmers should be determined in function of the specific 
challenge/area addressed. Sectors with high economic relevance in different pedo -climatic 
conditions and various biogeographical regions across Europe should be targeted in a 
representative way. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties in order to support value chain 
actors in co -creating, testing, validating and/or upscaling the developed innovations. 
Proposals should promote close cooperation among relevant research and innovation actors 
 
across the EU and Associated Countries, ultimately leading to a more efficient organic 
production R&I ecosystem by linking up to existing related EU -wide initiatives, in particular 
the Horizon Europe Partnership ‘Agroecology’. 
This topic should involve the effective contribution of Social Sciences and Humanities (SSH) 
disciplines.