HORIZON-CL6-2026-03-GOVERNANCE-04: Supporting All -Atlantic Ocean Research 
and Innovation Alliance 
Call: Call 03 - single stage (2026) 
 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.50 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 4.50 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Due to the scope of this topic, legal entities established in Brazil are 
exceptionally eligible for Union funding. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: 
If eligible for funding, legal entities established in non -associated third 
countries may exceptionally participate in this Coordination and support 
action as beneficiary or affiliated entity. 
In order to achieve the expected outcomes of the action, namely 
contribution to the implementation of the All -Atlantic Ocean Research 
and Innovation Alliance (AAORIA) Declaration, participation, as a 
beneficiary or associated partner, of at least three legal entities 
established in at least three of the AAORIA Partner countries 331 . is 
required. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 332. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
 
• coordinated marine and maritime research and innovation activities with Atlantic Ocean 
stakeholders, integrating the North and South Atlantic dimension, aligned with the 
priorities identified in the 2022 All -Atlantic Ocean Research and Innovation Alliance 
(AAORIA) Declaration, as well as with areas of action agreed in Cape town in 2023 on 
increasing resilience of coastal communities, and ocean observing and modelling, 
including in support of marine ecosystems and biodiversity;  
• enhanced visibility to the AAORIA activities, and support to its governance; 
• established All -Atlantic Intergenerational Programme fostering a self -sustaining, 
intergenerational, and transdisciplinary community of Atlantic Ocean experts, promoting 
science diplomacy, innovation, and governance, as well as connecting, empowering and 
strengthening the future All Atlantic Leaders and Stewards to make strategic 
investments, take difficult decisions and facilitate community acceptance.  
Scope: Tackling ocean and coastal challenges for the long term requires creating new 
knowledge, community acceptance and engagement, difficult decisions and strategic 
investments. This requires cooperation across generations, cultures, geographies and sectors. 
Building on past cooperative efforts under the Galway and Belém Statements, the AAORIA 
Declaration, and the related actions from successive EU Framework Programmes, proposals 
should contribute to upscaling collaboration across the Atlantic Ocean and promote its 
sustainable management, including its northern and southern parts and links to polar areas. 
This includes connecting scientists, stakeholders from public and private sectors, indigenous 
communities, civil society, and various generations, sectors, and disciplines with data, 
knowledge, expertise, and resources for the benefit All -Atlantic community. This also 
requires that proposals develop an All-Atlantic Intergenerational Programme to open access to 
knowledge, effective knowledge transfer, and stakeholder engagement in an intergenerational 
context. 
In particular, the proposals should: 
• consolidate and support existing and new AAORIA initiatives in the priority areas 
identified in the 2022 AAORIA Declaration, ensuring their long-term self-sustainability; 
• contribute with professional support to the coordination, monitoring, communication, 
and outreach activities of the Alliance, as well as to organisation of the annual AAORIA 
Forums; 
• foresee actions to incorporate new Partners and supporters in AAORIA; 
• support an overarching All -Atlantic Intergenerational Cooperation Programme with an 
integrated platform and network by implementing key actions such as:         
 strengthening research and training capacity in ocean science diplomacy, 
governance and international cooperation; engagement and cooperation with 
relevant private initiatives, etc. through activities such as summer schools, an 
annual intergenerational event for knowledge transfer between generations and 
hosting of the Atlantic Ocean Decade network of the Early Career Ocean 
Professionals (ECOP);    
 creating and supporting an Atlantic network complementing the Our Shared Ocean 
Initiative and benefiting Small Island Developing States (SIDS); it should engage 
coastal communities through the Coastal Resilience Beacon Sites Network and 
explore innovative cooperation models, such as the Floating Universities Network. 
To support the network, the proposals should develop an open access platform;    
 establishing and supporting an annual high-level event to promote intergenerational 
dialogue and a healthy and peaceful Atlantic region; maximising visibility and 
policy impact through global forums such as the United Nations General Assembly 
(UNGA) and the G20;    
 creating an independent fund through building partnerships with the private sector 
and philanthropic organisations to ensure financial support to Atlantic 
intergenerational cooperation, with a particular focus on providing financial support 
for ECOPs from Low and Middle Income Countries, as well as the Atlantic and the 
Caribbean SIDS.   
Proposals should link with relevant international bodies such as IOC-UNESCO supporting the 
All-Atlantic contributions to the UN Decade of Ocean Science, and facilitate dialogue and 
synergies with EU Missions and Partnerships relevant for the All -Atlantic work, as well as 
relevant EU projects, such as those resulting from topic HORIZON -CL6-2025-02-
COMMUNITIES-03. 
Proposals should ensure broad participation across generations, disciplines, and geographical 
regions through a strong involvement of citizens/civil society, academia/research, 
industry/SMEs and government/public authorities, as well as cooperation with philanthropists. 
In order to achieve the expected outcomes, international cooperation is mandatory. Consortia 
submitting proposals to this topic are encouraged to include in particular participants from 
AAORIA Partner countries333 and other Atlantic coastal nations.