HORIZON-CL6-2026-01-BIODIV-06: Boosting agrobiodiversity for food security and 
sustainable competitiveness 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or 
as an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: The proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Legal and financial The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 101. 
 
Expected Outcome:   
Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• land managers, farmers, foresters, agri -businesses (including SMEs), and policy makers 
gain access to practical knowledge of clear demonstrations of benefits and trade -offs 
associated with biologically diversifying their agroecosystem; 
• farmers, land managers and foresters are incentivised and rewarded for implementing 
practices that improve agrobiodiversity, leading to higher incomes and long -term 
sustainability and resilience of agriculture, greater food security, competitiveness, and 
healthier ecosystems;  
• enhanced capabilities for farmers to store, process, and market their diverse raw 
materials and products, derived from greater agrobiodiversity, while improving their 
market access and strengthening their position within the value chain.   
Scope: Genetic erosion poses a significant threat to agricultural resilience, as genetic diversity 
is crucial for crops to withstand environmental stresses such as climate variations, pests, and 
diseases. As the global population grows, the demand for increased food production often 
drives large -scale agriculture, which compromises biodiversity and long -term productivity. 
While promoting and expanding agrobiodiversity enhances agricultural resilience, socio -
economic obstacles hinder broader adoption. Beyond highlighting the importance of 
conserving agricultural biodiversity for food security, it is essential to demonstrate its role in 
enhancing food production, increasing farmers' incomes, and safeguarding livelihoods against 
environmental challenges. A significant obstacle to a wider adoption of more diversified 
production systems, is perceived risk in that process, in terms of yield, (marginal) income, 
lack of demand, stable and sufficient pricing, and potential increase of pests. 
Proposals should: 
• quantify the contribution of agrobiodiversity (including soil microorganisms), mainly at 
parcel/farm level, considering both species abundance and composition, and its 
 
economic impact, in particular in regard to food security, such as yield stability, 
nutritional quality, nutrient cycling and resilience to pests and diseases; 
• develop solutions and strategies to scale successful agrobiodiversity practices tailored to 
local, regional and national levels to strengthen farmers’ financial position in adopting 
more diversified production systems; 
• test how instruments for mobilising private finance, such as nature credits, could 
enhance the competitiveness of farmers, foresters and other land managers, including by 
opening up new opportunities of income; 
• build on and develop a decision support tool analysing the risk of diversifying 
production systems, in terms of yield, marketability, pricing, pests and diseases, hazard 
assessment of adverse organisms, genes and chemicals, and more, to assist farmers, 
breeders and agribusinesses in farm diversification; 
• provide recommendation for farmers, breeders, agricultural organizations, and 
agribusinesses for risk mitigation in adoption of wider varieties and marketability of 
non-conventional crops and local breeds produced in lower volumes; 
• define and evaluate the costs of farm diversification, in terms of labour and management 
complexity, and explore how these may be offset via lower costs of external inputs. 
Identify behavioural determinants in different socio -economic and cultural contexts to 
adoption of biodiversity friendly practices; 
• explore pathways for the valorisation of products, including tailored food processing and 
storage, relevant risk assessments for new methods/varieties, and strengthened 
collaboration with food industries.  
The projects under this topic are relevant to the EU policies related to the EU Vision for 
Agriculture and Food, the biodiversity strategy for 2030, the EU Action Plan for the 
Development of Organic Production 102, the Nature Credits Roadmap 103, and the EU Nature 
Restoration Regulation. 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the consortium selected for 
funding to assess the inclusion of quantified data in the EU Food System Monitoring 
Dashboard, and farm sector resilience analysis. Proposals should foresee appropriate 
resources to ensure close cooperation with the EC Knowledge Centre for Biodiversity 
(KCBD) and its Science Service. 
Proposals must adopt a multi -actor approach, engaging diverse stakeholders, particularly 
farmers and land managers, to integrate sector -specific knowledge and needs. This ensures 
impactful outcomes that address conservation and habitat requirements while aligning with 
agricultural contexts. 
 
Proposals should build (when relevant) upon existing knowledge and solutions designed and 
previously developed from previous projects demonstrating positive outcomes of enhancing 
agrobiodiversity for sustainable agriculture, funded by EU and national programmes, in 
particular the European Union Framework programmes for Research and Innovation (such as 
Horizon 2020 and Horizon Europe under their different pillars and clusters), and the LIFE 
programme. Proposals should plan cooperation with the Agroecology Partnership and the 
Mission Soil. 
Due to the scope of this topic, international cooperation is strongly encouraged, including 
with China under the EU-China Food, Agriculture and Biosolutions (FAB) flagship initiative. 
Development of specific technologies above TRL 4 is out of the scope of this topic.