HORIZON-CL6-2026-03-GOVERNANCE-05: Coordinated European contribution to 
the WMO Global Greenhouse Gas Watch and its international governance  
Call: Call 03 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 7.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 7.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or as 
an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: 
International organisations with headquarters in a Member State or 
Horizon Europe associated country are exceptionally eligible for 
funding as this topic targets international cooperation in the frame of 
initiatives related to the United Nations (UN). 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 334. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• EU strategic climate data autonomy and decision-making sovereignty; 
• global benchmarking of EU Greenhouse Gas observations and monitoring; 
 
• enhanced coordinated EU contribution and support to global GHG monitoring, reporting 
and verification; 
• effective EU climate policy implementation, as well as reporting and diplomacy on the 
global scene; 
• visibility of the EU climate action on the global scene.  
Scope: The World Meteorological Organization (WMO) established in 2023 a new global 
greenhouse gas monitoring initiative that aims to support WMO Members in climate change 
mitigation actions undertaken to implement the Paris Agreement. The WMO Global 
Greenhouse Gas Watch (G3W) will fill critical information gaps and provide an integrated, 
operational framework that brings under one roof all space-based and surface-based observing 
systems, as well as modelling and data assimilation capabilities in relation to greenhouse gas 
monitoring. G3W plays a key supporting role to the UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement. 
Proposals are expected to: 
• consolidate the EU contributions to these global GHG monitoring efforts through 
resilient and competitive environmental observing network capabilities, and to foster 
international data exchange cooperation. 
• develop innovative (including AI/ML -based) digital solutions, which can facilitate 
inversions, automate monitoring, reporting and verification obligations, as well as the 
overall operationalization of GHG monitoring. 
• focus on new GHG data products on global, regional, national and local scales. These 
should make use of all relevant existing and upcoming EO data including Copernicus 
Sentinels and relevant contributing missions, as well as ground -based networks (e.g. 
GAW, ICOS, TCCON, etc.) and socio-economic data as relevant. 
• support international intercomparison and benchmarking (e.g. uncertainty 
characterization) efforts. Use cases addressing hot spot emission monitoring are 
particularly welcome. 
• provide clear plans for global cooperation, transition into operational services, data 
sharing and integration across sectors, policy uptake, knowledge exchange and capacity 
building activities.  
Additionally, the action should embrace all the relevant initiatives existing at the European 
level and include a relevant panel of users and stakeholders at EU and national level. It should 
support the EU in addressing its international commitments under the UNFCCC and the Paris 
Agreement. 
The European Commission’s Joint Research Centre (JRC) may join the consortium selected 
for funding as a member, or participate in the project in another way, as the tools developed 
under this action are relevant for JRC’s role as leader of the Copernicus CO2 Task force and 
can facilitate EU level assessments of greenhouse gas emissions. 
International cooperation is encouraged.