HORIZON-CL6-2027-02-COMMUNITIES-01: Strengthening rural communities' 
resilience to shocks 
Call: Call 02 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 5.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 15.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: the proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 321. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• rural communities become more resilient by benefiting from an improved capacity to 
anticipate, prepare for, and recover from climate, environmental and socio -economic 
shocks; 
• local governance is strengthened and becomes more inclusive, benefiting from the active 
involvement of young people in responding to various types of shocks; 
• rural specificities regarding crisis preparedness and management are better understood at 
all governance levels, allowing for more targeted provisions in crisis preparedness and 
management plans.   
Scope: The successful proposals should contribute to fostering a sustainable, balanced, 
equitable and inclusive development of rural areas, supporting the implementation of the 
long-term vision for the EU’s rural areas and its objectives that see EU rural areas stronger, 
connected, resilient and prosperous by 2040. The successful proposals should also support the 
vision for agriculture and food and its objective to foster fair living and working conditions in 
vibrant rural areas, and to the Commission priority to sustain our quality of life by boosting 
climate adaptation, preparedness and solidarity. 
The geopolitical situation and climate change pose new challenges that people must confront 
at the local level. Research and innovation can support rural communities with evidence and 
participatory methodologies to anticipate, prepare for, and recover from various types of 
shocks, while building resilience. 
Proposals should: 
• assess the different types of shocks (understood as sudden disruptions) that can impact 
the livelihoods, well -being, gender -based differences, and resilience of rural 
communities. These shocks may include critical infrastructure disruptions (e.g., energy 
shortages, transportation disruptions, communication failures) as well as economic (e.g., 
job losses, financial and economic crises, market instability), socio -cultural and 
demographic (e.g., social conflicts, health crises, migration), and environmental 
phenomena (e.g., natural disasters, climate change, extreme weather events, ecosystem 
disruptions); 
• measure rural communities resilience with appropriate indicators by evaluating the initial 
impact of shocks and the capacity for recovery; 
 
• foster inclusive, participatory, and anticipatory governance by actively engaging women, 
youth, and people in a vulnerable situation in the development and implementation of 
disaster risk reduction and management plans, thereby strengthening local governance 
and ensuring their needs and perspectives are fully integrated into planning and decision-
making; 
• identify and mobilise local resources to strengthen community -based adaptation and 
resilience and support the co -design of solutions that help anticipate, prepare for, and 
recover from environmental and socio-economic shocks; 
• support all levels of government (local, regional, national, European and international) in 
understanding rural vulnerabilities to climate, environmental, and socio -economic 
shocks, and in designing, assessing, implementing, and evaluating effective response and 
recovery strategies;  
Proposals are expected to build upon already existing results and to collaborate with the other 
actions funded under this topic, and with other relevant projects funded under Horizon 
Europe. Proposals should include a task and appropriate resources to ensure these 
collaborations. 
Proposals should also contribute to rural proof the Resilience Dashboards 322 developed by the 
Joint Research Centre (JRC). 
This topic is interdisciplinary and includes the involvement of diverse areas of expertise, 
including territorial planning, disaster risk management, emergency response, and 
participatory governance. This topic requires the effective contribution of Social Sciences and 
Humanities (SSH) disciplines and the involvement of SSH experts. 
Proposals must use the multi -actor approach: researchers, local authorities, rural communities 
and other stakeholders operating at local level (as for example civil protection) should 
collaborate to co -create and co -produce strategies and solutions that address local needs and 
priorities. 
International cooperation is encouraged to foster knowledge exchange and peer -to-peer 
learning across countries.