HORIZON-CL6-2026-02-FARM2FORK-11: Integrating a holistic perspective in 
microbiome research for resilient, competitive and sustainable food systems 
Call: Call 02 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
5.00 and 6.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 11.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: the proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start from TRL 2 -3 in order to achieve TRL 5 
by the end of the project – see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 169. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes: 
• a better systems -level understanding through a One Health approach of the complex 
interactions and functional impacts of microbiomes across different hosts (plants, 
humans, animals...), environments (water, food matrices...), and interconnected 
ecosystems; 
• solutions are identified for resilient, competitive, and sustainable food systems that cover 
e.g. food security, agrifood systems durability and resilience, industrial applications, 
nutrition, health, and relevant aspects of biodiversity, climate change and the 
environment; 
• synergies are identified between existing European research infrastructures for sample 
biobanking and data -gathering/gathering/sharing to facilitate the exchange, pooling and 
integrated analysis of integrated microbiome (meta) -data, promoting inter and trans -
 
disciplinary collaboration among different stakeholders under the FAIR (Findable, 
Accessible, Interoperable and Re-usable) principles.  
Scope: Microbiomes hold immense potential for food systems applications, but microbiomes 
are often studied in siloes or one ecosystem at a time. Unlocking the functional diversity of 
food microbiomes to help develop innovative applications requires a systems approach 170. 
The topic is relevant to the EU policies related to the Commission communication on: 
Building the future with nature: Boosting Biotechnology and Biomanufacturing in the EU 171, 
the Life Science Strategy, the EU Biodiversity Strategy for 2030, the Zero Pollution Action 
Plan, the EU strategy on research and technology infrastructure, the R&I Food 2030 
Framework and the policies related to the digital transition (e.g. AI Act, etc) and contributes 
to climate action and biodiversity goals. 
Proposals should address all the following activities: 
• establish a holistic system approach to study the microbiome, and its interaction with its 
host and/or environment, its function and contribution to ecosystem(s) functions, 
connecting inter and trans -disciplinary fields of science (e.g. microbiology, ecology, AI 
and bioinformatics, biotechnology, synthetic/molecular biology, agronomy, plant 
sciences, etc.); 
• investigate existing and new supporting technologies such as multi -omics technologies, 
high-throughput sampling/phenotyping systems, predictive models, AI, federated 
learning, cultivation methods and/or in-vitro validated models (e.g. organoids, organ-on-
a-chip, genetic and metabolic engineering) for application in integrated microbiome 
studies; 
• establish further synergies between existing infrastructures (for instance, ELIXIR, 
MIRRI, BBMRI-ERIC, EOSC, etc.) to enhance their capacity to integrate and valorise 
integrated microbiome data (integrating samples and associated (meta)-data from diverse 
sources) as well as considering the integration of other environmental, agricultural, 
nutritional or climate datasets; 
• provide references strains and/or samples (e.g. for food safety or holobiont selection), 
standard protocols, operating procedures and quality control measures through the 
existing biobanks and data -repositories to support and facilitate further microbiome 
studies.  
Proposals must follow a multi -actor approach, engaging researchers, businesses (including 
SMEs and startups), public authorities and policy makers, research infrastructures and civil 
society to co-develop solutions. 
 
