HORIZON-CL6-2026-02-FARM2FORK-07: Strengthening the EU plant protection 
ecosystem for a future-proof agriculture 
Call: Call 02 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 3.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 3.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: the proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or 
as an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 160. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
 
• EU-wide dialogue and cooperation on plant protection challenges and solutions is 
improved for policymakers, researchers, innovators and other stakeholders; 
• policymakers, researchers, innovators and other stakeholders participate in a co -creative, 
multi-actor environment to jointly identify and address research and innovation needs 
towards stronger alignment of R&I efforts, guided by shared priorities and evidence -
based insights; 
• coordinated transition plans and broader uptake by all actors of sustainable, scalable and 
biodiversity friendly plant protection solutions across the EU.  
Scope: The projects under this topic are relevant to the EU policies related to the EU’s Vision 
for Agriculture and Food by strengthening the plant protection ecosystem and supporting a 
future-proof, resilient agricultural sector. 
The EU ambition to reduce the use of harmful pesticides is important for the long -term 
resilience of farming, health and environmental protection. However, the introduction of 
alternatives in the form of biological or innovative low -risk plant protection products has not 
followed with the same pace as the withdrawal of active substances from the EU market. If 
this trend continues, it could affect the EU’s ability to ensure food security and sovereignty. 
To ensure a smooth transition, coordinated action is needed. Strengthening dialogue, guiding 
research, and supporting innovation should equip policymakers and sectors to adapt and build 
a resilient, nature and biodiversity-friendly crop protection system. 
Proposals should: 
• establish or reinforce an inclusive, multi -actor platform for an EU -wide network to 
facilitate dialogue, knowledge exchange, cooperation among policymakers, regulatory 
bodies, farmer organisations, researchers, industry actors, and other stakeholders; 
• provide guidance to identify critical uses of active substances at risk of withdrawal, 
assess potential agronomic and economic impacts and map existing alternatives, 
including those that support agro-biodiversity, and research needs; 
• facilitate targeted discussions to prioritise the most affected crops and regions, define 
pathways for the development and adoption of alternative solutions with a priority on 
issues where a risk of deadlock situation has been identified as a result of the withdrawal 
of harmful pesticides, and shape strategic research and innovation agendas; 
• support agricultural sectors in co -developing actionable plans — from early -stage 
research to field-level deployment — that address the impacts of substance withdrawals 
and foster mutual learning across sectors and EU Member States.  
Proposals should consider the perspectives and needs of the different 27 EU Member States to 
ensure a high level of representation. Proposals must implement the multi -actor approach 
including a range of actors to ensure that knowledge and needs from various sectors are 
brought together. 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the consortium selected for 
funding. The participation could involve contributing to prioritization of critical active 
substances based on the potential economic, environmental and social impacts of the pests 
controlled by the active substances and assessment of the acceptability of alternative solutions 
by agents in the food system. 
Proposals should capitalise on relevant research findings and tools, included those developed 
under previous research projects and collaborate with projects funded in HORIZON -CL6-
2026-02-FARM2FORK-02: Tackling pesticide resistance: early detection, management 
strategies, and foresight.