HORIZON-CL6-2027-01-BIODIV-09: Enhancing the competitiveness of organic crop 
breeding: focus on intercropping adapted varieties 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 131. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties. The support 
to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• the efficiency and competitiveness of the organic crop breeding sector are boosted by 
providing organic breeders with a comprehensive toolbox to develop varieties 
specifically adapted to intercropping and suitable for organic production; 
• an improved understanding of key target traits for developing varieties adapted to 
intercropping farming systems is available to researchers and breeders, benefiting all 
agricultural systems; 
 
• the foundation for the development of future crop varieties that enhance benefits derived 
by intercropping, such as improved pest/weed management, increased nutrient and water 
use efficiency, improved pollination, improved soil fertility, reduced soil erosion and 
nutrient leaching, and enhanced productivity, is established.  
Scope: Plant breeding has focused on maximising yield in single species stands for 
monocropping systems, leading to highly productive yet specialised varieties. As a result, 
most varieties on the market may not perform well in intercropping systems, where 
productivity and benefits often depend on the interactions between crops. To support farming 
practices that promote agrobiodiversity, there is a need to develop varieties specifically 
adapted to intercropping. However, selecting varieties specifically for intercropping remains a 
practical challenge for breeding. 
Proposals should: 
• provide novel insights into interactions and mechanisms that influence intercrop 
performance by advancing understanding of plant traits affecting both inter - and 
intraspecific interactions and their impact on crop outcomes. The approach should 
consider eco -physiological processes 132 and ideally encompass both aboveground crop 
interactions and belowground dynamics between intercropped roots and soil organisms; 
• develop new organic breeding approaches that prioritise enhancing crop performance 
within multi -species systems, emphasising the importance of competition, 
complementarity and facilitation mechanisms between crops; 
• identify crop combinations and superior –performing variety combinations that 
consistently yield well together; 
• provide inputs for the development of future testing and selection criteria, as well as 
tools and methods for evaluating the performance of specialized genotypes in 
intercropping conditions, laying the groundwork for breeders and bodies entrusted to 
establish these frameworks.  
Particular attention should be given to aspects related to the regulations for the use and 
development of Organic Heterogeneous Material (OHM) and/or Organic Varieties Suitable 
for Organic Production (OVSOP) as innovative categories of plant reproductive material. 
If applicable, proposal may advance pre -existing breeding material towards the development 
of OHM and/or OVSOP for intercropping, making use of the knowledge and tools developed 
within the project. 
Proposals should build on the results of relevant projects funded under Horizon 2020 and 
Horizon Europe and ensure collaboration with relevant ongoing projects. 
 
Proposals are encouraged to consider, where relevant, the data, expertise and services offered 
by European research infrastructure133 in the environment, biological and food domains. 
Proposals may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP) to, for instance, develop, test 
and demonstrate the new organic breeding approaches for intercropping. 
The projects under this topic are relevant to the EU policies related to the EU Vision for 
Agriculture and Food, to the EU Action Plan for the Development of Organic Production 134 , 
to the EU biodiversity strategy for 2030 (notably target 8) and to the Kunming -Montreal 
Global Biodiversity Framework (target 10). 
 
