HORIZON-CL6-2026-01-CIRCBIO-01: Improving circularity of multilayer flexible 
plastic food contact packaging 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
5.00 and 6.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
project appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 11.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 226. 
 
Expected Outcome:   
Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• environment and society at large benefit from recyclable food packaging which can be 
recycled and reused back into food packaging while keeping the quality, value and 
extending the material lifetime; 
• industrial value chains including primary and secondary raw material producers, 
polymer suppliers, additives suppliers, converters, brand owners and retailers (SMEs and 
large companies), agri -food suppliers, waste managers and recyclers introduce 
sustainable food packaging on the market through enhanced design for recycling and 
solutions for effective sorting and recycling on an industrial scale, in line with the safe -
and-sustainable-by-design principles227; 
• consumers and civil society are sufficiently informed about appropriate ways of disposal 
of used food packaging to enable its circularity.   
Scope: Plastic food packaging represents a significant part of all plastic packaging put on the 
EU market. Flexible films composed of multiple layers are commonly difficult to recycle. 
And to date, there is no market at scale for closing the loop and establish recycling systems 
from food contact back to food contact application. Despite the advancement of several 
solutions, there is a need to improve the efficiency of recycling solutions and reach as high as 
 
possible yield of food contact compliant recycled plastic coming from post -consumer 
packaging films. 
Proposals should: 
• advance marketable solutions towards mono -material multilayer flexible plastic food 
contact packaging to enable its effective end-of-life collection, sorting and recycling into 
food contact-compliant recycled plastic suitable for food packaging; 
• Improve eco-design of multilayer plastic food packaging and demonstrate at large scale 
digital solutions for circularity such as digital product passport; 
• demonstrate individual and/or a combination of physical technologies and digital 
solutions (for example, AI, watermarking, or others) to further improve sorting yield of 
multilayer flexible packaging; 
• test and demonstrate recycling technologies (separation, purification, decontamination, 
etc.) enabling uptake of food contact compliant recycled plastic into food contact 
packaging in line with the targets of the Packaging and Packaging Waste Regulation; 
• demonstrate pathways to increase the recycled content of food contact compliant 
recycled plastic in new food packaging products; 
• demonstrate solutions on an industrial scale involving the whole value chain, while 
ensuring compliance with relevant food contact regulations (Regulation 2022/1616 and 
Regulation 1935/2004).  
Proposals should also evaluate the feasibility, effectiveness and impact of the demonstrated 
solutions using robust evaluation methods (including lifecycle assessments such as product 
environmental footprint, where relevant) and present data and evidence about the economic, 
environmental and social costs and benefits of the developed solutions. 
Engagement of all relevant value chain stakeholders is expected, i.e. primary and secondary 
raw material producers, polymer suppliers, additives suppliers, converters, agri -food 
suppliers, brand owners and retailers (SMEs and large companies), waste managers and 
recyclers. Clustering with other relevant Horizon Europe projects is encouraged. 
The topic supports the European Green Deal, the Regulation on Packaging and Packaging 
Waste, the Single Use Plastics Directive, the Waste Shipment Regulation, the Ecodesign for 
Sustainable Products Regulation and its working plan, the Regulation for recycling of plastic 
intended for contact with food, the Zero Pollution Action Plan, and the upcoming Circular 
Economy Act and contributes to Europe’s efforts to develop a single market for sustainable 
products. 
