HORIZON-CL6-2027-03-GOVERNANCE-04: AI supporting informed advice for 
farmers and foresters to improve competitiveness and sustainability     
Call: Call 03 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
5.00 and 6.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
 
project appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 11.80 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: the proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or as 
an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 8 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 363. 
 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• innovative AI-based solutions provide advisors, farmers and foresters with 
comprehensive, tailored and impartial advice to farmers and foresters to support them in 
their decisions as well as on the selection of innovative solutions, boosting the 
competitiveness, sustainability and resilience of the EU agriculture and forestry sectors; 
• capacity and skills of advisors, farmers, and foresters related to the effective use of AI 
solutions are improved; 
• use of existing and new data relevant for the decision -making for the optimized 
management of operations and the selection of innovative solutions on farms and in 
forests is increased.   
Scope: Digital technologies hold the potential to revolutionise farming and forestry, offering 
new opportunities to meet the rising demand for food, as well as biomass, while taking care of 
the environment, climate and people. With the growing availability of datasets relevant for 
both the agricultural and forestry sector, artificial intelligence technologies offer significant 
opportunities to harness data, enhance access to tailored information, and develop effective 
tools to support advisors, farmers and foresters in their operations. Successful proposals 
should contribute to build a competitive and resilient agriculture and forestry sectors. 
Proposals should: 
• develop, test, validate and pilot cost -effective AI-based solutions that make use of the 
various existing reliable and trustable knowledge reservoirs and provide contextual, 
effective and impartial advice for advisors, farmers and foresters; 
• capitalise on standardised and comprehensive data collected from different sources (e.g. 
public and private databases, in -situ data generated during the project implementation) 
for the development of AI -based solutions capable of providing advice based on the 
interpretation of multimodal inputs (e.g. text, images, audio, video etc…) provided by 
the end user. By doing so, successful proposals should ensure the availability of curated 
datasets by connecting to and harvesting data from existing public and private data 
sources, making use of privacy -preserving techniques when needed. The curated 
datasets, to be released as outputs, should be interoperable to maximise reuse, in order to 
support information fusion and third-party usage of the data; 
• involve advisors, farmers and foresters from across Europe in the co -development, 
testing, validation and piloting of the AI -based solutions; and improve end users’ 
awareness, understanding, competences and skills on the use, benefits, and risks of the 
developed AI -based solutions in view of improving the competitiveness and 
sustainability of EU agriculture and forestry; 
• build on results and ensure synergies with other Horizon 2020/ Europe as well as other 
relevant EU-funded initiatives and projects (e.g. EU Missions, project that may follow 
from the topic HORIZON -CL6-2024-GOVERNANCE-02-01: European Partnership of 
Agriculture of Data, and the Common European Agriculture Data Space) and 
demonstrate adequate planning and use of resources for this purpose; 
• ensure wide dissemination and uptake including by demonstrating tangible benefits and 
added value compared to existing solutions for farmers, forester and their advisors.  
Proposals must implement the multi -actor approach, with a consortium based on a balanced 
mix of relevant actors with complementary knowledge to achieve the objectives of the 
projects, seeking for the involvement of SMEs, start -ups, and including for instance relevant 
rural actors (in particular end -users of the AI -enabled solution), universities, research and 
technology organisations. The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding. The participation could involve sharing of information and 
contribution to dissemination of results. Proposals should develop diverse practice -oriented 
dissemination materials (e.g., audiovisual materials, brochures) presenting the AI -enabled 
solutions and other R&I results developed within the project and feed them into 
communication channels most consulted by the potential end-users. 
Proposals are encouraged to explore the application of data retrieval techniques (e.g., RAG) 
for the retrieval of up -to-date and context -specific information from external knowledge 
sources (e.g., market information, evolving regulation/legislative requirements). 
This topic should involve the effective contribution of social sciences and humanities (SSH) 
disciplines. By integrating relevant SSH expertise (e.g., legal expertise, gender expertise, 
education and behavioural sciences), the successful proposal aims to produce meaningful 
results that enhance the societal impact of related research activities, engaging advisors (e.g., 
including Advisory Networks), farmers, foresters, and other rural actors. 
The projects under this topic are relevant to the EU policies related to the policy ambition 
'Sustaining our quality of life: Food security, water and nature', the Vision for Agriculture and 
Food, as well as the objectives set out in the common agricultural policy, and the zero 
pollution action plan.