HORIZON-CL6-2026-01-BIODIV-01-two-stage: Living labs for co -creating solutions 
for the restoration of ecosystems 
Call: Call 01 - two stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
7.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 14.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility conditions The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or 
as an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the 
preparation and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: The proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties. The 
support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• stakeholders are empowered to implement viable ecosystem restoration measures; 
• competent authorities in charge of implementing the EU Nature Restoration Regulation 
are able to propose appropriate restoration measures; 
• social, economic and environmental co -benefits and trade -offs of nature restoration 
activities are demonstrated, including for climate action.  
Scope: The EU biodiversity strategy for 2030 defines nature restoration objectives in line with 
target 2 of the Kunming -Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework. The EU Nature 
Restoration Regulation provides that Member States shall put in place effective and area -
based restoration measures. Living labs have the potential to empower a green transition 
towards nature restoration and climate change mitigation and adaptation by developing 
solutions in a co -creative manner and involving actors in real life settings to achieve large -
scale impact and foster collaboration between sectors and communities. 
Proposals should: 
• support the set up of three living labs, with 10 to 20 experimental sites each, as places 
for testing and demonstrating innovative solutions to restore ecosystems following three 
main principles: (a) co -creation with a large set of stakeholders, (b) carried out in real -
life settings and (c) involving the end -users. Transboundary living labs are encouraged 
and expected to be in at least three different EU Member States and/or Associated 
Countries, with some of them including outermost regions, islands or remote areas. 
Proposals should describe the rationale for cooperation across the living labs and among 
the stakeholders within the living labs; 
• establish a work plan of activities in a transdisciplinary way, ensuring the co -design, co-
development, and co-implementation of locally adapted innovative solutions; 
• establish tools for each living lab to allow for an accurate assessment of the conditions 
and to monitor progress towards the objectives. Where relevant, the overall objective 
should be to reach the favourable reference areas, the good conservation status and the 
satisfactory levels for indicators at national levels defined in the Habitats Directive, the 
Birds Directive, the Marine Strategy Framework Directive, the Water Framework 
Directive or the Nature Restoration Regulation; 
• monitor and carry out an assessment of both the effectiveness of innovative practices for 
ecosystem restoration and for their non-deterioration; 
• demonstrate how of the identified innovative solutions can be viable for end -users, by 
developing suitable business models and testing private or public support schemes such 
as payment for ecosystems services or nature credits as proposed in the Nature Credits 
Roadmap104; 
• address challenges with scaling up and transferability of solutions, developing a gender -
sensitive and inclusive framework on how ecosystem health could support this work; 
• disseminate the newly developed solutions to facilitate their uptake by practitioners; 
• demonstrate how ecosystem restoration can support EU general policy objectives, 
enhancing societal resilience, and reducing natural risks.  
Proposals should focus on ecosystems under one or several of the following groups: 
• Transitional interfaces : Marine -coastal-terrestrial transitional ecosystems such as salt 
marshes, dunes, estuaries, coastal lagoons, and deltas, as well as freshwater transitions 
between watershed, rivers, lakes and groundwater. 
• Urban-rural gradient: urban ecosystems -including parks, restored brownfields, urban 
forests, and green and blue infrastructures -, urban nature with surrounding peri -urban 
and rural ecosystems. 
• Mosaic agricultural landscapes : agricultural ecosystems with high biodiversity value 
such as semi-natural grasslands, agroforestry systems, hedgerows, and buffer strips. 
• Biodiversity corridors : linear habitats that cut across multiple land uses, such as 
riparian vegetation, roadsides, canal banks, and hedgerows. Ecosystem connectivity 
across fragmented landscapes. 
• Dryland and arid ecosystems : garrigue, maquis, and steppe landscapes facing 
increasing threats from drought, erosion, desertification, and fire.  
Projects must adopt the multi-actor approach. The actors may include researchers, land / water 
managers, industry representatives (e.g., SMEs), local authorities, civil society representatives 
(e.g., local residents, environmental NGOs, youth organisations) and/or investors. Financial 
support to third parties (FSTP) to facilitate active involvement of small actors (e.g., land 
managers, SMEs or civil society) can be provided through calls for proposals. A maximum of 
30% of the EU funding should be allocated to this purpose. 
This topic requires the effective contribution of SSH disciplines to enhance the societal 
impact of the related research activities. 
Cooperation is expected with relevant EU -funded projects and with relevant initiatives of the 
partnership Biodiversa+, and appropriate resources should be foreseen to ensure close 
cooperation with the EC Knowledge Centre for Biodiversity (KCBD) and its Science Service. 
The collaboration with the JRC would address JRC methodologies for ecosystem condition 
 
assessment, aligned with the System of Environmental Economic Accounting, and data and 
indicators identified by JRC to perform the assessment.