HORIZON-CL6-2027-02-FARM2FORK-02-two-stage: Optimising the water -nutrient-
energy nexus for sustainable and climate smart agriculture in Africa (FNSSA) 
Call: Call 02 - two-stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
6.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
 
project proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Applicants submitting a proposal for a blind evaluation (see General 
Annex F) must not disclose their organisation names, acronyms, logos 
nor names of personnel in the proposal abstract and Part B of their first-
stage application (see General Annex E). 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: the proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: due to the specific 
challenge of this topic, in addition to the minimum number of 
participants set out in the General Annexes, consortia must include at 
least three independent legal entities established in an African Union 
member state*.  
International organisations with headquarters in a Member State or 
Associated Country are exceptionally eligible for funding. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: Due to the scope of 
this topic, legal entities established in all African Union member 
states* are exceptionally eligible for Union funding. * "African Union 
member states" includes countries whose membership has been 
temporarily suspended. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The first-stage proposals of this topic will be evaluated blindly. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties. The 
support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 215. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• agricultural actors implement sustainable practices for resource -efficient and climate -
smart and biodiversity-friendly farming in diverse African agro-ecosystems; 
• integrated water, nutrient and energy management systems are available to smallholder 
farms in Africa.  
Scope: A nexus approach that identifies and develops mutually beneficial knowledge, 
practices and tools in agriculture can enable sustainable, biodiversity -friendly and climate -
smart agriculture in African agro -ecosystems. The needs for water, energy, and nutrients in 
agriculture are crucial for smallholder farms to sustain predictable and stable productions and 
support livelihoods. Making available innovative solutions based on circular and sustainable 
approaches, can enable new business opportunities in African agriculture. 
Proposals should: 
• assess needs and opportunities (economic, environmental and social) for sustainable 
water, nutrient and energy management in agriculture for food and/or non-food uses; 
• improve existing and develop new knowledge, practices and tools for on farm 
sustainable management of agricultural resources at the nexus of water, nutrient and 
energy inputs and outputs; 
• evaluate the impact of the proposed practices and tools in terms of water, energy and 
nutrient balances but also their economic feasibility, environmental/climate footprint and 
social effects; 
• enable sustainable, circular, climate -smart and biodiversity friendly practices at farm 
level while considering the characteristic of both local and regional levels in at least two 
different African agro-ecosystems.  
The projects under this topic are relevant to the EU Vision for agriculture and food, the 
Global Gateway Strategy, contribute to the African Union-EU High Level Policy Dialogue on 
Science, Technology and Innovation 216 and to the respective R&I partnerships on Food and 
Nutrition Security and Sustainable Agriculture (FNSSA) and on Climate Change and 
Sustainable Energy. Projects under this topic are relevant for the climate objectives of the 
 
African Union and the EU, and for the commitments of the Kunming -Montreal Global 
Biodiversity Framework. 
Proposals should contribute to the implementation of the short -term and medium-term actions 
outlined in the AU -EU Innovation Agenda in the priority area of Green Transition, (notably 
action (4) and (5) among short -term actions and (1) and (3) for medium -term actions), and 
aim to translate R&I efforts into tangible business, products, services, development and 
employment opportunities in Africa and Europe. 
Proposals must implement the multi-actor approach to ensure the adequate involvement of the 
public authorities, advisory services and farmer organisations. 
Proposals should adopt an inclusive approach that respects and integrates local knowledge 
and practices alongside technological and scientific expertise, where indigenous insights are 
enriched by innovative approaches and new technologies through mutual learning. 
Proposals should propose collaboration opportunities with ongoing projects funded under 
Horizon Europe, in particular those establishing living -labs in Africa. Furthermore, proposals 
are encouraged to seek connections with Regional Multi -actors Research Networks on 
Agroecology supported by the EC in Africa217. 
Proposals are encouraged to work together with the European Commission’s Knowledge 
Centre on Global Food and Nutrition Security to leverage its knowledge base on relevant 
topics and to expand the reach and dissemination of the project's results. 
Proposals are encouraged to seek complementarities with the activities of the Partnership for 
Research and Innovation in the Mediterranean areas (PRIMA). 
Proposals may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP) to, for instance, develop, test 
and demonstrate new practices and tools. A maximum of 30% of the proposed budget should 
be allocated to this purpose. 
 
