HORIZON-CL6-2027-01-ZEROPOLLUTION-03: Improve the capacity to monitor and 
reduce air pollution from agriculture 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Due to the scope of this topic, relevant international organisations with 
headquarters in a Member State or Horizon Europe Associated Country 
are exceptionally eligible for funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: The proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Agreements Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 294. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• monitoring, reporting and verification (MRV) of air pollutants at farm level is improved; 
• human health and environment (including biodiversity) benefit from reduced impacts of 
air pollution from agriculture; 
• EU policies preventing and reducing air pollution are supported with more 
comprehensive, harmonised and accurate scientific evidence, tools and methods to 
estimate the emissions; 
• farmers, advisors and other stakeholders acquire new and better knowledge, technologies 
and practices to reduce certain air pollutants from agriculture.  
Scope: EU agriculture contributes substantially to air pollution through various emissions. 
Additional efforts are needed in the sector to help reducing the impact on human health and 
the environment, including biodiversity. To promote the uptake of measures at farm level, 
better data on their impact and effectiveness are needed. There is also a need for new practical 
solutions to help farmers monitor and reduce air pollution. 
Proposals should: 
• assess and improve the accuracy, cost, efficiency and user -friendliness of MRV 
methodologies and tools (including AI, IoT, etc.) for air pollutants (other than 
greenhouse gases) in agriculture at farm level through analysis, field experiments, and 
demonstration activities, reducing uncertainties and enabling use of higher tiers for the 
estimation of emissions and for reporting; 
• consolidate, extend and improve knowledge on emission factors and mitigation potential 
of practices and activities at farm level, contributing to the further development of the 
EMEP/EEA air pollutant emission inventory guidebook 2023295; 
• develop farming practices and technologies in manure management and application, 
livestock feeding and grazing, use of fertilisers and pesticides in all relevant types of 
 
farming systems, including cattle, poultry and pigs, to reduce air pollutants other than 
GHG and evaluate their reduction potential in line with relevant UNECE Guidance 
documents296; 
• through dedicated training and outreach activities, build capacity among farmers, 
advisors and other relevant actors for widespread utilisation of improved MRV tools and 
air pollution reduction measures addressing, among other impacts, biodiversity loss.  
Proposals must implement the multi -actor approach, with a consortium based on a balanced 
mix of actors with complementary knowledge, including farmers, researchers, advisors and 
businesses. 
Concrete efforts should be made to ensure that the data and methodologies produced in the 
context of the funded projects follow the FAIR principles (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable 
and Re-usable). 
Proposals should include a dedicated task and resources for cooperation with the other 
project(s) funded under this topic and with other relevant ongoing and forthcoming Horizon 
Europe project(s), including topic HORIZON -CL6-2025-02-CLIMATE-04: Monitoring, 
reporting, verification and mitigation of non -CO2 greenhouse gas emissions and related air 
pollutants from agriculture, especially to understand the combined effects of air pollutants. 
The projects under this topic are relevant to the EU policies related to the Zero Pollution 
Action Plan, the Industrial and Livestock Rearing Emissions Directive, the National 
Emissions Reduction Commitments Directive, the Ambient Air Quality Directive, the EU 
biodiversity strategy for 2030, and the transition to a more sustainable EU agriculture in 
alignment with the EU Vision for Agriculture and Food and the Common Agricultural Policy.