HORIZON-CL6-2027-01-BIODIV-03: Technical innovation to protect ecosystems and 
to scale up their restoration 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 7.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 14.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -7 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Agreements Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 118. 
Purchases of equipment, infrastructure or other assets specifically for 
the action (or developed as part of the action tasks) may be declared as 
full capitalised costs. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• activities of protection and restoration of ecosystems by stakeholders become easier and 
more effective; 
• conditions to scale up the implementation of the EU Nature Restoration Regulation by 
stakeholders are improved, thus improving ecosystem services including for climate 
mitigation and adaptation.  
Scope: Ecosystem restoration strategies for nature restoration and climate change mitigation 
require a coordinated and coherent set of human interventions and management practices (e.g. 
temporal protection of plants or removing invasive species, including their seeds) for which 
there is usually no dedicated mean like specific machinery, equipment or other technical 
innovations (like for example specific lures for invasive alien species). The most common 
practice is the use of agricultural machinery or equipment, but this is not always effective. 
With target 4 of the EU biodiversity strategy for 2030, the EU took the following 
commitments: significant areas of degraded and carbon -rich ecosystems are restored; habitats 
and species show no deterioration in conservation trend and status, and at least 30% reach 
favourable conservation status or at least show a positive trend. According to the EU Nature 
Restoration Regulation, Member States shall put in place effective and area -based restoration 
measures with the aim to jointly cover, as a Union target, at least 20 % of land areas and at 
least 20 % of sea areas by 2030, and all ecosystems in need of restoration by 2050. This is 
reflected in target 2 of the Kunming -Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework. The European 
Climate Law requires Member States to adopt and implement national adaptation strategies 
and plans in which they should promote Nature -based Solutions and ecosystem -based 
adaptation. These policies and legislations have reached the implementation stage in the EU 
and worldwide. 
Successful proposals are expected to: 
 
• design, develop and test technical innovations corresponding to identified needs for 
specific ecosystems protection and/or restoration activities. A wide range of possible 
innovations can be proposed, including new or adapted machines, low techs, digital 
innovations or combinations of them to be used in a wide range of ecosystem types, 
including terrestrial, freshwater and marine; 
• pay attention to effectiveness, simplicity of use, durability and environmental 
sustainability and responsibility (including alertness to potential risks, trade -offs and the 
unintended consequences as a result of the use of technological innovations).  
This topic is particularly relevant for SMEs. 
Proposals should foresee appropriate resources to ensure close cooperation with the EC 
Knowledge Centre for Biodiversity (KCBD) and its Science Service.