HORIZON-CL6-2026-01-BIODIV-04-two-stage: Mainstreaming and scaling -up 
evidence-based Nature -Based Solutions towards a nature positive and climate -resilient 
economy 
Call: Call 01 - two stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 18.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 110. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties. The support 
to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes: 
• better understanding and communication of environmental, social and economic impacts 
of Nature-based Solutions (NbS) 111 is available for stakeholders across sectors, building 
on and enhancing existing knowledge systems, databases, and impact assessment 
frameworks; 
• policymakers at different levels are able to more systemically integrate NbS across 
policy domains - such as energy, built environment, water management and transport - 
enabling systemic approaches to conserve, protect, restore and sustainably use 
ecosystems, strengthen climate resilience and maximise cost-effectiveness; 
• scientifically credible, robust and policy -aligned evidence and projections (including 
from EO and modelling) are provided for practitioners and decision -makers on the long-
term effectiveness of implemented NbS across terrestrial, freshwater and marine 
ecosystems (including urban) under diverse climate scenarios. This includes 
understanding how factors such as vegetation growth, health, and variety, the 
deterioration of engineered materials, cost -effectiveness, and maintenance requirements 
evolve over time, supporting the wider adoption and policy integration of NbS; 
• enhanced practitioners’ capacity to design, co -create and implement NbS that 
incorporate adaptive management to minimise unintended and unforeseen consequences 
in the face of economic, societal and climatic changes, compared to conventional 
interventions.  
Scope: Proposals should thrive to equip policymakers and practitioners with robust evidence, 
knowledge and practice on NbS. When implemented at scale, and following a credible design 
and implementation approach thriving for ecosystem integrity and connectivity, NbS can 
deliver significant benefits and reduced costs. 
This topic aims to contribute to the evidence base on the role of NbS in a nature positive and 
climate resilience society. It supports climate adaptation and mitigation strategies, that ensure 
 
long-term economic security and opportunities, respect planetary boundaries and address 
climate uncertainties. This calls for a systematic integration of NbS across sectors and policy 
levels. Proposals are encouraged to apply a multi -actor approach to engage with actors from 
research, policy and practice, as well as SSH disciplines, to support the above -mentioned 
systemic NbS integration and evidence -based decision-making, and produce meaningful and 
significant effects enhancing the societal impact of the related research activities 
Proposals should enable the scaling up and mainstreaming of NbS, aligning with key policies, 
including the European Green Deal, the EU biodiversity strategy for 2030, the Climate 
Adaptation Strategy, the EU Climate Adaptation Plan, the EU Forest Strategy, the 
Preparedness Union Strategy, the Kunming -Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework (GBF) 
notably targets 2, 8, and 11, the EU water and marine acquis, the European Water Resilience 
Strategy and the European Ocean Pact. 
Proposals should: 
• co-design, develop and implement large scale pilots and/or interconnected NbS, 
following a land/sea -scape approach to ensure positive measurable outcomes and 
addressing multiple challenges, prioritising climate adaptation and mitigation, water 
resilience, and creating new economic opportunities, while addressing biodiversity loss. 
Where relevant, links should also be made to opportunities for disaster risk and air 
pollution reduction; 
• advance methods to assess the long -term viability of NbS, ensuring that the knowledge 
gained is integrated into policy, infrastructure, and spatial planning while respecting 
socio-economic and ecological thresholds; 
• facilitate effective collaboration and knowledge transfer among researchers, 
practitioners, policymakers, public authorities as well as SSH disciplines to support 
evidence-based decision-making, making use of relevant existing platforms and, where 
possible, expanding beyond the European context; 
• develop and synthesise knowledge and tools to better assess and mitigate the potential 
unintended consequences and risks associated with the implementation of NbS; 
• assess environmental, social and economic impacts of NbS, building on existing 
knowledge and frameworks, and analyse the mechanisms to scale these solutions.  
Proposals should seek to address some knowledge gaps identified by the relevant IPBES 
assessments and if appropriate provide recommendations to policy makers. Applicants should 
create synergies with and build on results of other EU -funded NbS projects. To this end, 
proposals should include dedicated tasks and appropriate resources for coordination measures, 
including the collaboration with the EU NbS Task Forces. Proposals may include financial 
support to third parties (FSTP) to facilitate active and supportive involvement of actors, 
experts and institutions. 
Proposals should foresee appropriate resources to ensure close cooperation with the EC 
Knowledge Centre for Biodiversity (KCBD) and its Science Service.