HORIZON-CL6-2026-03-GOVERNANCE-06: A services and business incubator for 
geospatial open-source developments 
Call: Call 03 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 6.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties. The support 
to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000335 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 336. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• strengthened European competitiveness in the environmental and Earth Observation 
service industry, including climate services and analytics services for nature and 
biodiversity, through leadership in open -source geospatial, including compute 
capabilities, software and algorithms, facilitating the integration of Earth observations 
and other geospatial data, models and software into sustained business opportunities; 
• strengthened strategic sovereignty of the European open geospatial developer and 
geospatial software community with increased economic sustainability; 
 
• accelerated transition of critical European open -source geospatial software assets and 
innovation towards sustainable business ventures.  
Scope: Open-source geospatial software ecosystems form a critical digital infrastructure for 
climate services, agriculture, biodiversity, environmental monitoring, and beyond. While 
Europe is home to world -class developers and software assets used globally and presenting 
the backbone to the modern geospatial sector (e.g. GDAL, QGIS, Pangeo stack, etc), their 
long-term sustainability remains challenged by fragmented, voluntary support, low visibility 
in funding and investment channels, and limited access to business knowledge and 
opportunity tailored to open-source development models. 
Importantly, many open -source projects already operate at high technology readiness levels 
(TRL), with active user communities, broad adoption, and demonstrated product -market fit. 
However, these projects often lack the business frameworks and institutional support 
necessary to facilitate long -term sustainability, resilience and European software sovereignty. 
Their challenges are distinct from those of early -stage research projects or conventional start -
ups, and they require tailored approaches to governance, licensing, service monetization, and 
maintenance. 
To address open-source geospatial specific challenges, proposals under this topic should: 
• establish a business incubation and support hub for the geospatial open -source 
community in Europe, acting as a single -entry point to foster entrepreneurship and 
sustained open development across critical geospatial open -source projects. To this end, 
the hub should identify and develop pathways for open -source geospatial software 
communities to partake in viable business opportunities, fostering innovation and 
entrepreneurial growth within the open -source ecosystem and working towards long -
term sustainability of the critical geospatial open-source software ecosystem; 
• analyse the European market and innovation landscape, to identify current and future 
demands for geospatial open -source software across public and private sectors, identify 
gaps and business opportunities for commercial uptake of open -source software and the 
creation of business models; 
• in collaboration with the European geospatial and open -source communities, including 
established organisations, such as NumFOCUS, OSGeo, Linux Foundation and others, 
proposals should identify, and catalogue critical geospatial open -source software 
projects, and support fundamental, mature open -source projects with high TRL and 
demonstrated user traction in developing sustainability and sovereignty strategies, 
including tailored business strategies, IP models (where applicable), and investment 
readiness, to bridge the gap between open innovation and venture -ready business 
opportunities.  
Proposals should include capacity -building elements and services, such as business 
mentoring, legal and IP advice, training on licensing and open business models, match 
making with investors, alignment with European Innovation Council (EIC) selection criteria, 
and community -building actions for the critical geospatial open -source projects. The 
applicants should furthermore plan facilitating pathways from critical open-source software to 
Venture Capital support, such as EIC support instruments, including Transition and 
Accelerator programmes. 
Proposals should foresee a range of 45 -60% of the proposed budget for providing financial 
support to third parties (FSTP), with the aim of establishing seed funding mechanisms to aid 
identified critical geospatial open -source projects and associated entities established in EU 
and Horizon Europe associated countries. In accordance with the developed critical open -
source software to business and sustainability pathways, these Grants should aid critical open-
source projects to implement measures to start identified business opportunities with activities 
such as administrative and legal set -up, productisation, business development, branding and 
marketing, etc.