HORIZON-CL6-2027-01-BIODIV-05: Accelerating the transition to a nature positive 
economy: Integrating biodiversity into the private sector 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 7.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 14.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: The proposals must 
apply the multi-actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 121. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes, driving transformative change for biodiversity and nature positive economic 
practices: 
• overall, the economic case for biodiversity protection, restoration, sustainable use and 
the delivery of ecosystem services upon which all life depends, is strengthened including 
through robust assessments of the cost of inaction; 
• businesses are better able to mainstream biodiversity considerations in decision -making, 
fostering transformative business models that enhance inclusion for biodiversity, 
particularly for start -ups and SMEs, including nature -based enterprises 122. Leveraging 
synergies in business action on climate to strengthen overall resilience also needs to be 
considered; 
• policy and decision makers benefit from improved knowledge to drive transformative 
policy including fiscal reforms to align economic incentives with nature positive 
investments and scalable biodiversity finance mechanisms (including blended finance, 
green bonds, nature credits, ecosystem service markets, etc.); 
• to ensure clear evaluation frameworks for effectiveness, policy and decision makers have 
access to improved measurement and reporting of economic and business impacts, 
dependencies, and efforts on biodiversity.  
Scope: Current economic systems are often driven by growth models and competitive 
pressures that prioritise short-term profits and speed over the long -term health of ecosystems. 
These systems also fail to account for environmental externalities, making nature positive 
solutions appear less affordable than they truly are. This has led to the exploitation of natural 
resources, habitat destruction, and loss of biodiversity, which in turn has significant negative 
impacts on both the environment and human well -being. Safeguarding biodiversity and 
ecosystem services is not just important, it is essential to preserving life on Earth, as they 
underpin the very systems that sustain all human and natural life. As these systems continue, 
the consequences are becoming increasingly clear: climate change, soil degradation, water 
scarcity, pollution and species extinction, all of which undermine the foundations of human 
society, business, and future prosperity. A nature positive economy, on the other hand, 
focuses on restoring and enhancing the natural systems that support life on Earth, ultimately 
benefiting and improving the resilience of our economy. 
 
The topic should work to achieve the objectives and the implementation of the European 
Green Deal, the EU biodiversity strategy for 2030, the ‘Roadmap towards nature Credits’, EU 
Sustainable Finance Policy including the EU Taxonomy for Sustainable Activities, the 
Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework (GBF, and notably targets 14, 15, 18 and 
19) and the Task Force on Nature Related Financial Disclosures (TNFD). 
Proposals should: 
• support decision -making for a nature positive economy by addressing knowledge and 
practice gaps, advancing transparent and standardised biodiversity metrics, improving 
accessibility of assessment methods and data, integrating economic risks related to 
biodiversity loss into corporate strategies and reporting. Where possible lessons learned 
should inform and scale-up initiatives to achieve a nature positive economy also beyond 
the European context; 
• improve the knowledge on effective biodiversity incentives including through fiscal 
reforms and phasing out harmful subsidies to support the development of policies and 
financial strategies for nature positive investments; 
• pilot innovative financial mechanisms and valuation approaches in real -world business 
contexts, including instruments for mobilising private finance such as nature credits, to 
strengthen the business case for biodiversity protection, restoration and sustainable use, 
including through Nature-based Solutions; 
• carry out demonstration actions to help integrate research into policy and practice and to 
demonstrate operational pathways for long term transformative change and for the 
acceleration of nature positive economy; 
• use and build on available biodiversity data sources, including from biodiversity 
monitoring schemes, for the purpose of developing corporate strategies and 
sustainability metrics in the private sector. This includes considering the potential of AI; 
• develop, analyse and/or promote ways of making sustainability reporting more 
accessible, efficient, and accurate for businesses of all sizes and particularly for start -ups 
and SMEs, with a view to promote an equitable and manageable compliance framework. 
Leveraging AI, digital automation and sector specific insights is encouraged.  
Proposals should seek to address some knowledge gaps identified by the relevant IPBES 
assessments and if appropriate, provide recommendations to policy makers. 
Proposals should create synergies with and build on results of other relevant EU -funded 
projects on biodiversity, economics and finance, and ensure cooperation with the European 
partnership Biodiversa+. To this end, proposals should include dedicated tasks and 
appropriate resources for coordination measures. 
Proposals should foresee appropriate resources to ensure close cooperation with the EC 
Knowledge Centre for Biodiversity (KCBD) and its Science Service. Proposals should also 
foresee links with voluntary market initiatives, e.g., the TNFD or others. Proposals must 
follow a multi-actor approach, engaging researchers, businesses, financial institutions, public 
authorities, policy makers, and civil society to co-develop and apply solutions.