HORIZON-CL6-2027-01-BIODIV-01: Integrating Remote Sensing and in -situ 
observations of Biodiversity, towards a fully interoperable observation and data 
framework 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 5.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 10.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or as 
an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 112. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• advancing robust, policy -relevant ecosystem assessment, nature protection and 
restoration planning activities, and biodiversity trend prediction based on fit for purpose 
data, thus supporting EU biodiversity and climate objectives; 
• strengthened capacity of researchers, practitioners and decision -makers to improve 
biodiversity monitoring practices and address knowledge gaps via the integration of data 
and observations across sensors and platforms, ranging from omics-based data (genomic, 
transcriptomic, metabolomic), various in-situ to satellite-based Earth observation data; 
• enhanced usability of in -situ datasets as training and validation resources for statistical, 
machine learning and advanced AI -based approaches, in support of applications such as 
habitat classification, ecosystem mapping and biodiversity trend prediction.  
Scope: Achieving the goals of the EU biodiversity strategy for 2030 , the Kunming-Montreal 
Global Biodiversity Framework, and assessing progress towards their defined targets, requires 
coherent, integrated and long -term monitoring approaches, underpinned by FAIR (Findable, 
Accessible, Interoperable and Re -usable) data systems. Many existing in -situ data collections 
(i.e. genomic assessments, ground sampling, drone and airborne observations) were not 
designed with Satellite Remote Sensing integration in mind (i.e. for validation and calibration, 
integrated data products, or statistical scaling of information) and lack the structure, interface 
and metadata required to support advanced analytics, including AI. FAIR data on species and 
ecosystems will also help to ensure that biodiversity preservation is a mainstream feature of 
other sectors, such as agriculture, transport, energy or the bioeconomy. There is a need for 
systemic, harmonised or standardised biodiversity data at Earth’s surface in order to support 
AI applications ranging from genome to space and to build up our knowledge on the status 
and trends of habitats, species, ecosystems, and on the drivers of decline. 
To address these challenges, proposals should: 
• develop and validate fit -for-purpose multisensory biodiversity data integration systems, 
to enable omics -based and in -situ data harmonization and integration with remote 
sensing data from space or sub-orbital platforms, as well as socio-ecological and climatic 
data for enhancing assessment of ecosystem condition and degradation, and the 
predictive modelling of biodiversity trends at international, regional and European 
scales; 
 
• develop concrete technical capabilities able to answer to diverse use cases, across 
terrestrial, freshwater and marine ecosystems in Member States and Associated 
Countries. To this end, proposals should identify and prioritise critical biodiversity 
knowledge gaps and their data needs, with a focus on predictive analytics and the use of 
AI, and address them by designing data integration approaches that support scientific 
and policy needs, including biodiversity protection, restoration, and sustainable use goals 
and targets, as well as other related policy objectives; 
• develop demonstration and verification cases focusing on specific ecosystems under the 
EU ecosystem typology 113 and habitats, including ecotones 114, identified as those under 
pressure or as restoration priorities. Proposals should take into account socio -economic 
pressures and activities impacting ecosystems, including land and sea use and emissions 
of pollutants (e.g. agriculture, aquaculture, urbanization, resource exploitation and 
management practices). Demonstration cases should be relevant to EO applications, such 
as AI-assisted ecosystem and habitat mapping, ensuring interoperability with European 
and global frameworks such as the Global Ecosystem Typology as well as EUNIS, and 
aligned with reporting requirements under the Habitats Directive, Birds Directive, 
Marine Strategy Framework Directive and EU Nature Restoration Regulation; 
• deliver FAIR data, harmonisation workflows and processing protocols supporting data 
integration from genome to space and verify the use of generated datasets on identified 
analysis needs. Proposals should link observation data to emerging socio -economic, 
climate, agriculture, forestry, fisheries and environmental data and to relevant data 
infrastructures, including, if applicable, the European Open Science Cloud (EOSC) and 
the European Common Data Spaces and SAGE115; 
• contribute to consensus and implementation of joint definitions of data collection, 
metadata and processing protocols, data quality and harmonization of standards enabling 
the integration of observations “from genomes to space”.  
Proposals should earmark resources for cooperation with existing initiatives such as in -situ 
data collection frameworks (e.g., GBIF, OBIS, LUCAS).The Joint Research Centre (JRC) 
may join the selected consortium in relation to effective coordination with the EC Knowledge 
Centre for Biodiversity (KCBD) and its Science Service, as well as incorporating the in -situ 
data from European Commission steered biodiversity monitoring schemes such as LUCAS, 
specifically  LUCAS grassland, and EMBAL (European Monitoring of Biodiversity in 
 
Agricultural Landscapes). Proposals may consider services offered by European research 
infrastructures116.  
This topic is part of the Biodiversity cluster of the EC -ESA Earth System Science Initiative 
(ESSI). Proposals should foresee sufficient mean for effective coordination with projects 
selected under ESA’s FuturEO programme.