HORIZON-CL6-2026-02-FARM2FORK-06: Advanced innovative solutions for 
improved competitiveness and sustainability in controlled environment agriculture 
(CEA) 
Call: Call 02 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: the proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
 
approach in this work programme part. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -7 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 158. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP). The 
support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• farmers are supported in their transition into innovative controlled environment farming 
techniques and decision support tools for sustainable growth optimisation strategies; 
• the competitiveness and sustainability (including climate mitigation and adaptation) in 
controlled environment agriculture are improved benefiting all relevant actors.  
Scope: Controlled Environment Agriculture (CEA) refers to any form of agriculture that 
controls and optimises environmental conditions such as temperature, humidity, carbon 
dioxide, light or nutrient concentration. Examples of CEA include greenhouses, vertical 
farms, grow rooms, building -integrated agriculture, hydroponics, aquaponics, aeroponics, as 
well as other innovative farming practices - both off land and land based - where 
technological advancements enable precise regulation of growing conditions farming. 
By developing innovative farming techniques that integrate the latest technological 
advancements including artificial intelligence (AI), this research should provide a competitive 
and sustainable transformation in response to global food security and sustainability 
challenges. Furthermore, it should also empower farmers and key stakeholders in the 
agricultural primary sector by enabling them to adopt sustainable, efficient, profitable, 
 
circular, and low-emission farming practices. By leveraging cutting -edge technology and AI -
driven solutions, the activities should contribute to the overarching goals of climate neutrality 
and climate resilience, reinforcing the EU’s commitment to a sustainable agricultural future. 
Proposals should: 
• develop and assess advanced cost -effective innovative and sustainable solutions 
(including nature -based solutions) to address the key challenges (including climate 
change related and environmental) for crop optimisation in CEA. The assessment should 
address, among other, crop health and yield, energy efficiency, water use efficiency, 
nutrient management, environmental conditions, cost -effectiveness, automation and 
technology integration, sustainability and environmental impact, food safety, pest and 
disease management, scalability and adaptability; 
• develop data -driven decision -making smart automation and precision farming 
techniques, as well as predictive analytics for plant growth optimisation (e.g. via AI 
modelling); 
• explore appropriate new business and cooperation models adapted to proposed solutions, 
taking into account organisation and distribution concepts, and marketability of the 
resulting products. Consider requirements from relevant EU regulatory frameworks 
including where relevant needs for pre-market authorisation; 
• foster knowledge sharing including by training to test and adopt the innovative solutions, 
and informed advice for improved competitiveness and sustainability of CEA.  
Proposals should develop innovative solutions in both conventional and organic production 
systems. The projects under this topic are relevant to the EU policies related to the EU Vision 
for Agriculture and Food, the Common Agricultural Policy, the EU Action Plan for the 
Development of Organic Production 159 , the European Green Deal policies dealing with 
environment protection and climate change, and the Apply AI Strategy. 
Activities should fall under the concept of the multi -actor approach and allow for adequate 
involvement of relevant actors including farmers, SMEs, start-ups, scientists and developers. 
To effectively transition these innovations into the market, SMEs should actively be involved 
in this process. Activities are expected to achieve Technological Readiness Levels (TRL) 6 -7 
by the end of the project – see General Annex B. 
Proposals may involve financial support to third parties, particularly for SMEs providing 
and/or developing testing, or validating the proposed innovative technologies/solutions. A 
maximum 30% of EU funding should be allocated to this purpose. 
Proposals should capitalise on relevant research findings from past and ongoing research 
projects and especially seek synergy with the other project to be selected under this topic and 
 
with the project to be selected from the topic HORIZON -CL6-2025-02-FARM2FORK-08: 
Exploring the potential of controlled environment agriculture (CEA).