HORIZON-CL6-2026-03-GOVERNANCE-01: Additional activities for the Sustainable 
Blue Economy Partnership (SBEP) 
Call: Call 03 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
38.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 38.00 million. 
Type of Action Programme Co-fund Action 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The proposal must be submitted by the coordinator of the consortium 
funded under HORIZON-CL6-2022-GOVERNANCE-01-02 and 
HORIZON-CL6-2024-GOVERNANCE-01-1: European Partnership for 
a climate neutral, sustainable and productive Blue Economy. This 
eligibility condition is without prejudice to the possibility to include 
additional partners. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The evaluation committee will be composed partially by representatives 
of EU institutions. If the proposal is successful, the next stage of the 
procedure will be the grant agreement amendment preparations. If the 
outcome of amendment preparations is an award decision, the 
coordinator of the consortium funded under HORIZON -CL6-2022-
GOVERNANCE-01-02: European Partnership for a climate neutral, 
sustainable and productive Blue Economy will be invited to submit an 
amendment to the grant agreement, on behalf of the beneficiaries. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
This action is intended to be implemented in the form of an amendment 
of the grant agreement concluded pursuant to topic HORIZON -CL6-
2022-GOVERNANCE-01-02. 
For the additional activities covered by this action the funding rate is 
30% of the eligible costs. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP). The 
support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants.As a 
co-funded European Partnership, providing financial support to third 
parties (FSTP) is a core activity of this action in order to achieve its 
objectives. Consequently, the EUR 60 000 threshold laid down in 
Article 207 of Financial Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2024/2509 does not 
apply. The maximum amount of FSTP that may be awarded to any 
single third party is set at EUR 10 million. This ceiling is justified by 
the fact that FSTP is a primary activity of this action, by its expected 
duration of 7 –10 years (excee ding a standard project lifespan), and by 
the extensive experience gained under predecessor partnerships. 
The starting date of grants awarded under this topic may be as of the 
submission date of the application. Applicants must justify the need for 
a retroactive starting date in their application. Costs incurred from the 
starting date of the action may be considered eligible (and will be 
reflected in the entry into force date of the amendment to the grant 
agreement). 
Total indicative 
budget 
The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 38 million committed in 
annual instalments over the years 2026 -2027 (EUR 22 million from the 
2026 budget and EUR 16 million from the 2027 budget). The total 
indicative budget of the Partnership for the whole duration is EUR 150 
million. 
 
Expected Outcome : This topic is for the continuation of the Sustainable Blue Economy 
Partnership (SBEP), i.e. EU contribution in WP 2026. The third instalment of the partnership 
is expected to contribute to expected outcomes specified in topic HORIZON -CL6-2022-
GOVERNANCE-01-02 and HORIZON-CL6-2024-GOVERNANCE-01-1. 
Scope: The objective of this action is to continue to provide support to the European 
Partnership for a climate-neutral, sustainable and productive Blue Economy (SBEP) identified 
in the Horizon Europe Strategic Plan 2021 -2024 and first implemented under the topic 
HORIZON-CL6-2022-GOVERNANCE-01-02: European Partnership for a climate neutral, 
sustainable and productive Blue Economy, and in particular to fund additional activities 
(which may also be undertaken by additional partners) in view of its intended scope and 
duration, and in accordance with Article 24(2) of the Horizon Europe Regulation. 
Taking into account that the present action is a continuation of the existing topic and foresees 
an amendment to an existing grant agreement, the proposal should present additional activities 
(including additional partners) to be covered by the award primarily in terms of grant 
agreement revisions. 
The consortium which applied to and received funding under HORIZON -CL6-2022-
GOVERNANCE-01-02 and HORIZON -CL6-2024-GOVERNANCE-01-1 is uniquely placed 
to submit a proposal to continue the envisioned partnership. Not only did this consortium 
submit the proposal leading to the identification of the partnership in the Horizon Europe 
strategic planning 2021-2024, it has also implemented the partnership through co-funded calls 
in year 2022 based on this planning and further to topic HORIZON -CL6-2022-
GOVERNANCE-01-02 and HORIZON-CL6-2024-GOVERNANCE-01-1. In this context, the 
current consortium has particular expertise in relation to the objectives of the Partnership, the 
activities to be implemented, in particular FSTP calls or other calls/scope of calls clearly 
required/envisioned pursuant to the initial proposal/partnership, and other relevant aspects of 
the action. In practice, another consortium could not continue the activities of the Partnership 
underway without significant disruption to the ongoing activities, if at all. 
The scope of the application for this call on the Sustainable Blue Economy Partnership should 
focus on the 2023-27 programmes according to the partnership’s co-created strategic research 
and innovation agenda for seven years. It should pursue alignment, cooperation and 
structuring of research and innovation efforts across the EU and national levels, focusing on 
regional seas and on the objectives of the EU Mission Restore our Ocean and Waters and of 
the European Ocean Pact, to support a just and inclusive transition to a regenerative, carbon -
neutral and circular blue economy and to foster knowledge exchange and co -creation of 
actions with regulators, policymakers and businesses. It should also continue or expand the 
priority areas identified in the Strategic Research & Innovation Agenda, promoting R&I 
alignments across national, regional, and EU levels, and fostering integration across science, 
industry, governance, and society. The partnership will focus on multiple strategic areas like 
ocean health, sustainable blue economy, digital twins, and citizen well -being, while aligning 
with EU policies such as the European Green Deal and other directives. It should recognise 
the diversity of citizens to be involved and the vulnerability of different groups when 
approaching different analyses, and develop more inclusive recommendations. The 
Partnership should consolidate relevant structuring activities and propose additional ones 
(potentially done by additional partners) aiming at promoting Blue Economy Innovations, 
contributing to the development of the European Ocean Observing System (EOOS), for 
instance by facilitating and promoting coordination of cross -border ocean and coastal 
observations programmes, at increasing the availability of FAIR (Findable, Accessible, 
Interoperable and Re -usable) data for environmental, climate and blue economy purposes, at 
exploiting the opportunities offered by Artificial Intelligence and other cutting -edge 
technologies, etc. 
The partnership is expected to continue to organise joint calls as part of the additional 
activities and therefore it should factor in ample time to run the co-funded projects. 
The partnership's additional activities are expected to be designed and described in such a way 
that it is clear how they will increase scientific contributions, applicable in a legal/regulatory 
context, and how they will facilitate the use of scientific knowledge by regulators and 
policymakers and support the development of a sustainable blue economy. The additional 
activities are expected to be implemented through the multi -actor approach and ensure 
adequate involvement of researchers from different disci plines, advisors, local, regional and 
national authorities, government representatives, industry and businesses, including SMEs, 
knowledge institutions and citizens, civil society organisations including NGOs, and other 
relevant actors of the value chain, supported through Open Science practices and an inclusive 
governance, policy and decision-making. 
While the award of a grant to continue the Partnership in accordance with this call should be 
based on a proposal submitted by the coordinator of the consortium funded under HORIZON -
CL6-2022-GOVERNANCE-01-02: European Partnership for a climate neutral, sustainable 
and productive Blue Economy and the additional activities (which may include additional 
partners) to be funded by the grant should be subject to an evaluation, this evaluation should 
take into account the existing context and the scope of the initial evaluation as relevant, and 
related obligations enshrined in the grant agreement. 
Taking into account that the present action is a continuation of topic HORIZON -CL6-2022-
GOVERNANCE-01-02 and HORIZON -CL6-2024-GOVERNANCE-01-1 and foresees an 
amendment to an existing grant agreement, the proposal should also present in a separate 
document the additional activities and additional partners, if any, to be covered by the award 
in terms of how they would be reflected in the grant agreement. The proposal should also 
describe the specific activities foreseen to strengthen the synergies with other related Missions 
and Partnerships.