HORIZON-CL6-2026-02-FARM2FORK-05: Boosting circularity and diversification 
strategies of terrestrial livestock production systems 
Call: Call 02 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: the proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced portfolio covering systems and products, grants 
will be awarded to applications not only in order of ranking but at least 
also to one application within the wool value chain (i.e. fiber animal 
production systems) that is the highest ranked, and one application 
highest ranked within another relevant value chain, provided that the 
applications attain all thresholds. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 156. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• farmers, rural communities, and agrifood or animal by -product value chain operators 
benefit from improved practices, technologies and validated tools that promote 
sustainability through the implementation of diversification and circularity in livestock 
farming systems, contributing to agricultural biodiversity; 
• public authorities, consumers and other actors of the value chain are provided with 
evidence-based information on the socio -economic-environmental impacts of 
diversification and circularity strategies in the livestock farming systems to support their 
choices; 
 
• tailored collective actions are implemented to support the organization of farmers, 
producers, rural communities and other value chain stakeholders into cooperatives, 
associations or community networks to enhance collaboration, resources sharing, market 
access, bargaining power, and sustainable development.  
Scope: Boosting circularity and diversification strategies of livestock production systems by 
integrating for example diverse animal breeds and species, multiple animal products and by -
products, and sustainable land -use approaches like mixed crop -livestock systems and 
agroforestry can help to reduce environmental ad climate impact, to increase biodiversity in 
agricultural landscapes, to minimize waste, and to enhance overall farming system resilience 
to environmental and economic shocks. Such strategies can provide alternative revenue 
streams (e.g., meat, dairy, wool, eggs, wood, fruit, manure, ecosystem services/carbon 
credits), improve farmers’ income stability, reduce dependency on external inputs and on 
single-product markets, and create more sustainable farms and rural economies. 
Farmers are increasingly interested in diverse and circular livestock farming strategies, but the 
efficiency, profitability, trade -offs, interactions, and co -benefits of these strategies vary by 
region, farm type, and economic conditions. The aim is to assess the real short - and long-term 
impact and scalability of these strategies in different pedo -climatic regions and in various 
terrestrial livestock systems, including organic farming. It is important to investigate local 
agricultural and agro -industrial resources, including residues, by -products and co -products 
that are not valorised to produce energy or bio -based chemicals for the wider bioeconomy 
(such as bioenergy, biopolymers/biomaterials), but instead remain within the farming system 
for circular uses such as animal feed, soil amendments, organic fertilizers, and other 
innovative uses. 
Proposals should address all the following activities: 
• develop and validate innovative strategies and tools, including monitoring systems, to 
optimize diversification and circularity in terrestrial livestock farming systems at 
multiple levels (e.g., animals, products, by -products, farm, land) and scales (spatial, 
organizational and temporal). This includes valorising resources, by -products, residues 
and waste, closing the nutrient loops, and enhancing resilience, sustainability, 
biodiversity and profitability while considering the specific local context and needs of 
rural areas, and ensuring that food safety is maintained; 
• foster the utilisation of locally available value -added products, co -products and by -
products from terrestrial livestock farming systems, taking into account the EU 
regulatory framework and relevant standards, while assessing synergies, trade -offs, and 
possible interactions between resource use, efficiency, circularity and sustainability; 
• enhance exchange among the participants along the value chain of information, good 
practices and innovations on circularity and diversification, including logistic, 
governance and business models that help in sharing local resources, aggregating supply, 
improving the bargaining power of farmers through cooperative structures and 
preserving the cultural heritage related to traditional local rural production; 
• analyse the social and economic viability of the diversified and circular livestock 
farming systems, with particular attention to market trends and value chain analysis, 
including traceability, and their contribution to sustainable rural development; 
• provide scientific evidence and policy advice that support the assessment of the current 
EU regulatory framework relevant to the sector and to existing or novel products derived 
from animal and agricultural by-products.  
Proposals should either address Area A: any terrestrial livestock production system or Area B: 
production system on the wool value chain (i.e. fiber animal production systems). The area (A 
or B) should be clearly indicated on the application. 
The projects under this topic are relevant to the EU policies related to the EU Green Deal’s 
objectives for resilient and sustainable agri -food systems, the EU biodiversity strategy for 
2030, the Circular Economy Action Plan, the Vision for Agriculture and Food, the EU climate 
policy and the EU Action Plan for the Development of Organic production157. 
Proposals must implement the multi -actor approach and ensure adequate involvement of the 
main stakeholders involved in animal husbandry in Europe, including farmers, shepherds and 
relevant organisations notably in the livestock sectors, territorial planners, advisors, private 
sector/industry (e.g. processors, retailers, distributors), policy-makers, consumers, etc. 
Proposals should capitalise on relevant research findings and tools, included those developed 
under previous research projects, where relevant.