HORIZON-CL6-2026-03-GOVERNANCE-10: Embracing innovation in agriculture by 
peer-to-peer learning via on farm-demonstrations and cost-benefit analysis 
Call: Call 03 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
4.00 and 5.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
 
the future project to be selected under the topic HORIZON -CL6-2025-03-GOVERNANCE-14, and 
relevant EIP-AGRI Operational Groups projects. 
project appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 9.80 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: The proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced portfolio, grants will be awarded to applications 
not only in order of ranking but at least to one application highest 
ranked within each area, A and B, provided that the applications attain 
all thresholds. Proposals shall clearly indicate the area they are applying 
to. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties. The support 
to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 348. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• enhanced peer-to-peer learning leads to widespread sharing and uptake of the innovative 
solutions by farmers across the EU, thereby improving competitiveness, sustainability 
and resilience of the agricultural sector; 
 
• the costs and benefits of applying innovative solutions in real context are better 
understood by farmers, advisors and other AKIS actors across the EU.  
Scope: On-farm demonstrations can be crucial for enabling innovation uptake in agriculture, 
as they provide a platform for showcasing and evaluating new practices, but also serve as an 
effective avenue for peer -to-peer (or farmer to farmer) learning, leading to skill 
empowerment, higher adoption rates and increased practice change compared to the 
traditional top-down approaches. By engaging in on -farm demonstrations, farmers are better 
positioned to assess the applicability of innovative practices or tools. Complementing on -farm 
demonstrations with comprehensive cost-benefit analyses further empowers farmers, allowing 
them to quantitively evaluate the costs and benefits associated with the adoption of new 
solutions/practices. This approach should not only promote informed decision -making but 
also accelerate the uptake and integration of innovative practices across the agricultural 
sector. Proposals should either address Area A: Crop production systems, or Area B: 
Livestock and mixed production systems. The area (A or B) should be clearly indicated in the 
proposal. 
Proposals should: 
• develop objective benchmarking criteria to select agricultural innovations, considering 
factors such as their impact, ease of implementation, scalability and applicability across 
different agricultural systems; 
• develop and apply a standardised methodology to assess the economic, environmental 
(including biodiversity effects), and social impacts of adopting these innovations, with 
focus on the analysis of the costs and benefits for the practitioners; 
• screen and select promising practice-oriented innovative solutions developed by research 
and innovation projects in the area of agriculture to be tested on -farm and by farmers, on 
the basis of the objective benchmarking criteria; 
• test, validate and showcase the innovative solutions in real conditions directly on - farms 
across different geographic realities in real conditions, and thoroughly analyse their costs 
and benefits for the practitioners. It is essential that proposals ensure complementarity 
and cooperation with existing and future peer -to-peer and on -farm demo activities in 
their planning and avoid overlaps and repetitions, ensuring geographical coverage of the 
EU; 
• develop and widely share learning materials and courses, and incentivise peer -to-peer 
learning by organising, e.g., cross -border field visits and farmer -centred webinars 
presenting the most effective innovative solutions to farmers and advisors.  
Proposals must implement the multi -actor approach, with a consortium based on a balanced 
mix of relevant actors with complementary knowledge clearly activating advisors, farmers 
and/or foresters and/or rural actors. To effectively support the transition of innovations into 
the market, the participation of startups and SMEs is strongly encouraged. 
Proposals may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP) to, for instance, develop, test 
and demonstrate innovative measures. A maximum of 30% of the EU funding should be 
allocated to this purpose. Particular efforts 349 in outreach and communication should be made 
by the project to help publicise these calls to the stakeholder targeted as beneficiaries of the 
support. 
This topic should involve the effective contribution of social sciences and humanities (SSH) 
disciplines. 
The projects under this topic are relevant to the EU policies related to the EU Vision for 
Agriculture and Food and the cross -cutting objective of the common agricultural policy 
(CAP) to enhance knowledge flows and the adoption of innovation among AKIS 350 actors, in 
particular advisory services and end-users351.