HORIZON-CL6-2027-01-ZEROPOLLUTION-02: Developing effective air quality 
planning strategies through innovative multi-scale modelling 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.90 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 9.80 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Due to the scope of this topic, relevant international organisations with 
headquarters in a Member State or Horizon Europe Associated Country 
are exceptionally eligible for funding. 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or as 
an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start from TRL 2 and achieve TRL 5 by the 
end of the project. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 291. 
 
Expected Outcome : Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following 
outcomes:   
• public authorities obtain access to enhanced and innovative modelling capabilities to 
support air quality planning at various policy levels in a coherent way; 
• society benefits from improved governance processes and effective air quality planning 
strategies, aiming at mitigating air pollution and reducing population exposure, as well 
as from far more targeted air pollution alerts; 
• public authorities, including EU policy -makers and the EEA, receive faster, more 
comprehensive scientific evidence and tools, enabling more effective EU air quality 
policy implementation and providing citizens with reliable, detailed information and 
peak pollution warnings to reduce health impacts.  
Scope: The air we breathe is often polluted, which can lead to serious health problems and 
even premature death. To address this public health issue, it is essential to understand how 
pollutants move and interact in the air at different scales, from regional to street level and at 
different time periods during the day or in different seasons. However, current models used to 
predict air quality have limitations, particularly in terms of their grid resolution levels and 
their limited ability to accurately capture the complex interactions between different scales. 
This can lead to uncertainties and inaccuracies in assessing and predicting air quality, making 
it challenging to develop and take effective measures to improve air quality. 
This topic aims to improve these capabilities by developing a chain of innovative integrated 
models, relatively easy to use and interpret, that can simulate the air quality situation in 
different scales and types of areas, including at ‘micro -scale’, and by integrating a temporal -
scale dimension, also taking into account emissions into the ambient atmosphere from indoor 
environments. This should support the development of effective air quality planning strategies 
at various levels, ultimately helping to reduce air pollution and protect public health. 
Moreover, it should support the requirements in the revised Ambient Air Quality Directive as 
regards the development of Air Quality Roadmaps and Air Quality Plans, and for the design 
and planning of the network of monitoring stations. 
More specifically, proposals should: 
• develop comprehensive multi -scale modelling chains possibly with two -way nesting 
capabilities (TRL 5), addressing air quality assessment, including spatial and temporal 
representativeness, and atmospheric processes of air pollution. Incorporate and improve 
 
urban canopy parameterization to better account for complex interactions between urban 
structures and air pollutants, including the role of urban vegetation in mitigating and/or 
fostering the formation and/or accumulation of specific air pollutants, with an emphasis 
on air pollutants with the highest health impacts; 
• analyse the current limitations associated with the integration of different models and 
multiple spatial/ temporal scales in a single modelling system and develop methods to 
improve and integrate the existing air quality models and required input datasets (TRL 
5); 
• develop, configure and validate innovative micro -scale modelling systems at very high 
resolution with the aim of modelling and evaluating the impact of air quality measures to 
minimize, mitigate, and prevent exceedances at hotspot locations (TRL 5); 
• provide guidelines for air quality modelling to support decision making to improve air 
quality at all scales, including by harmonizing different types of models within an 
integrated system, as well as promoting the use and development of multi -scale online 
modelling systems.  
Population groups in vulnerable situations are disproportionally affected by air pollution. 
Proposals should consider the vulnerability dimension (e.g. for children, older people, 
women, people with lower socio -economic status, people with underlying health conditions) 
when approaching different scale analyses and provide recommendations on whether and how 
links could be made with data on social and spatial inequalities related to air pollution 
exposure and benefits of mitigation measures in developing inclusive air quality plans and in 
urban planning. 
Where relevant, activities should build and expand on the results of past and ongoing research 
projects and initiatives with a relevant air quality monitoring and/or modelling component to 
share experiences, reach synergies and avoid duplication. These could include projects funded 
under H2020 and Horizon Europe as well as under LIFE strategic integrated projects for clean 
air, such as LIFE PREPAIR and LIFE Malopolska. 
Proposals are encouraged to consider, where relevant, the data, expertise and services offered 
by European research infrastructures 292  in the environment domain, such as ACTRIS 293 . 
Concrete efforts should be made to ensure that the data produced is FAIR (Findable, 
Accessible, Interoperable and Re-usable). 
Proposals should, where possible, build on results of and cooperate with AQUILA and 
FAIRMODE communities and pave the way for the possible transition of the project 
outcomes into the Copernicus Atmosphere Monitoring Service. This topic is part of the EC -
ESA Earth System Science Initiative, and projects should collaborate with related projects 
 
funded by ESA’s FuturEO programme and should towards this end include sufficient means 
and resources for effective coordination. 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as a member of the consortium selected for 
funding. In particular, the JRC could, as relevant, promote and support the harmonised use of 
scientifically sound air quality modelling approaches and help identify best practices in the 
area. In this regard, JRC would also usefully facilitate interaction with the JRC-chaired Forum 
for Air quality Modelling (FAIRMODE). 
International cooperation is encouraged.