HORIZON-CL6-2026-03-GOVERNANCE-02: Improving analytical capacity and 
understanding of social drivers in agriculture to better assess social sustainability in the 
sector 
Call: Call 03 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
5.00 and 6.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 10.80 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or 
as an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 325. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• the research community benefits from increased data availability, interoperability and 
use, and improved analytical capacity on social dimensions of agriculture, meaning 
appropriate data, better indicators, methods and tools to assess social sustainability in the 
sector; 
• policymakers are better equipped with reliable and harmonised analytical research 
methodologies, and consequently with new and improved knowledge and better 
understanding of social drivers in agriculture to design evidence-based policies, inter alia 
to ensure a just transition in the agriculture sector; 
• improved social sustainability of the agri -food sector thanks to better knowledge and 
better policies.  
Scope: Knowledge gaps exist between agricultural policy priorities and data infrastructure to 
evaluate social sustainability issues, particularly regarding farmers. Often social issues are 
addressed by various policy instruments from different policy areas, but there are 
inconsistencies, for example in the way that target groups are identified and measured in the 
statistics collected at European level. A framing of the social dimension of agriculture is 
necessary to complement the existing environmental and economic aspects of sustainability of 
assessment tools, strategies and policies for agriculture in the EU. Social issues may remain 
hidden if there is no consistent data able to capture them. Social aspects seem to be excluded 
from most of the analytical tools available. Greater understanding of social issues and the best 
policy approaches to address them requires appropriate data to develop better indicators and 
measurement that can be integrated into analytical tools. Successful proposals should 
therefore directly and/ or indirectly contribute to the enhancement of the sustainability 
performance of the sector, including social sustainability, and competitiveness in agriculture. 
Proposals should: 
• identify the social impacts of agriculture on farmers (e.g., employment, demography, 
migration, distributional aspects, procedural justice, inclusiveness, health and well -
being, social integration, gender equality, etc.), by considering various type of 
 
agricultural activities and farming methods (including organic farming) at various 
geographical scales, from local, national, EU to global levels; 
• map, assess and address gaps in data, indicators, and modelling approaches currently 
lacking social perspective by considering various type of agricultural activities and 
farming methods (including organic farming) to improve the assessment of social 
performance including determinants, synergies, trade-offs and benefits; 
• advance access, harmonize and improve interoperability of evidence/data available from 
observational, qualitative or case -study approaches to complement quantitative research 
methods. Examine networking structures to reach all relevant actors, interactions and 
relations, both work- and life-related; 
• test, demonstrate and pilot promising new/improved indicators, models, tools and 
approaches to assess social performance; 
• identify and address challenges for the EU, Member States and regions to deploy social 
sustainability principles in the agricultural sector and provide policy recommendations to 
overcome them. 
• provide recommendations on how to improve the social sustainability of the agricultural 
sector and ensure a just transition; 
• widely disseminate and share knowledge and solutions to policymakers, farmers, 
businesses and other relevant end-users in order to facilitate their uptake.  
Proposals under this topic should support EU ambitions related to the Common Agriculture 
Policy (CAP), the EU Action Plan for the Development of Organic Production 326 , and 
contribute to the EU Vision for Agriculture and Food for 2040 aiming at an agri -food system 
that is economically, socially and environmentally sustainable, and thus attractive, 
competitive, future-proof and fair for current and future generations. Furthermore, in line with 
the objectives of the CAP to promote fair jobs and social inclusion for farmers, the successful 
proposal should support the development of innovative governance models by providing 
strong evidence -based knowledge and analytical capacity to support its implementation. 
Proposals should as well support the development and implementation of the future CAP post 
2027. 
New interdisciplinary knowledge combining economic and social sciences offer a new 
perspective on agricultural sciences in which social elements could be the starting point for 
sustainability evaluations of agricultural systems. To this purpose, proposals should involve 
the effective contribution of Social Sciences and Humanities (SSH) disciplines, such as 
sociology, psychology, demography, behavioural science and education. 
Proposals are expected to take into consideration the results of other related Horizon 2020/ 
Europe projects as well as of other relevant EU-funded projects and initiatives. 
 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the consortium selected for 
funding. The participation could involve contributing to scenario assessment with the iMAP 
modelling platform, sharing of information, and contribution to dissemination of results.