HORIZON-CL6-2026-01-CIRCBIO-06: Bioeconomy policy support hub for Member 
States, regions and sectors 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 3.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 3.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or 
as an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 233. 
 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• most Member States and regions 234 have established the bioeconomy as an important 
policy field. Effective bioeconomy policies and strategies are developed and 
implemented with specific impact targets in mind; 
• policies and action plans and roadmaps are coordinated across parts of government (e.g. 
Ministries) and across the quadruple helix (government, sectors, research & innovation, 
society) to take into account the cross -sectoral and place -based character of the 
bioeconomy, and the need for a whole of government approach. Platforms are 
established to facilitate dialogue, experimentation, learning and coordination; 
• all actors of the quadruple helix (e.g. policy makers, NGOs, economic sectors) are aware 
of the bioeconomy, as well as of the potential and challenges that are specific for their 
perspective and context. The bioeconomy concept, its principles and its solutions and 
innovations are mainstreamed by sectors (e.g. food, textiles, chemicals, energy, 
agriculture, forestry).  
Scope: Proposals should: 
• establish a European Bioeconomy Policy Support Hub to provide innovative approaches, 
hands-on support, learning and advise to Member States and regions on plans, roadmaps, 
policies and collaborations to deploy their bioeconomies; 
• provide innovative tools to assess, on an ongoing basis, the stage of development of 
bioeconomy policies and strategies in Member States and regions, and to assess the 
quality of their implementation; 
• provide relevant support, new approaches and recommendations to improve and/or take 
next steps. Take into account the learnings of the Report “ Deploying the bioeconomy in 
the EU ” (2021, European Commission), as well as the results of relevant Horizon 
Europe projects (e.g. ShapingBio, CEE2ACT, SCALE-UP); 
• provide an overview of the uptake of new bioeconomy solutions based on biomass and 
biological resources (including ecosystems) in European value chains and sectors 
(including service sectors); 
• provide innovative approaches, hands-on support, learning and advise to Member States 
and regions to deploy their bioeconomies. This can include activities that aim help to:        
 inform and engage political leadership on the potential of the bioeconomy;    
 establish or improve platforms facilitate policy dialogue, experimentation, learning 
and coordination (e.g. policy labs);    
 
 map the bioeconomy’s potential across sectors and society at regional and Member 
State level, and increase awareness;    
 advance skills of policy makers, and learn from best practices in bioeconomy policy 
and implementation;    
 set-up or improve local bioeconomy councils, i.e. platforms for dialogue between 
government, sectors, academia and society (quadruple helix) on bioeconomy 
policies, plans, roadmaps and their implementation;    
 put in place collaborations that facilitate the scaling -up of bioeconomy solutions in 
value chains and sectors that are relevant for the Member State or region;    
 monitor the bioeconomy as well as the change process it brings;   
• ensure innovative approaches, hands-on support, learning and advise that is both generic 
(targeting all Member States and regions; or groups of Member States and regions) and 
tailormade (in response to questions from specific Member States and regions that 
express clear need and commitment to collaborate); 
• carry out activities to maximize the geographical spread of its support and advice; 
• enable structural dialogue with European Commission services, and collaborate with 
relevant initiatives such as the Circular Bio -based Europe (CBE) Joint Undertaking, 
European University Alliances, the European Circular Economy Stakeholder Platform or 
the BIOEAST initiative 
• collaborate with such partners on a roadmap to ensure that key results, tools and 
approaches can be sustained after the end of the project; 
• collaborate with relevant Horizon Europe projects (e.g. ShapingBio) and/or build on 
their results.  
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the consortium selected for 
funding since results could contribute to the Knowledge Centre for Bioeconomy’s monitoring 
of bioeconomy policy developments in EU countries and regions.