HORIZON-CL6-2027-02-FARM2FORK-04: Improving understanding of the 
contribution of the organic farming sector to sustainability 
Call: Call 02 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 6.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: the proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 199. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes: 
 
• improved and increased data collection on the environmental, economic and social 
impacts of the EU organic sector, from farm to consumer levels, leading to improved 
understanding of the overall impact of the organic sector on sustainability (including 
climate change mitigation and biodiversity); 
• improved capacities of organic supply chains and organic value chain actors, including 
farmers, to collect and provide data on organic production to fulfil reporting 
requirements; 
• increased cooperation between public and private data providers in the organic sector 
across the EU.  
Scope: The Vision for Agriculture and Food recognises organic farming as an approach with 
potential to ensure an attractive and predictable agri -food sector, while at the same time 
delivering several ecosystem services beneficial for the environment, climate and 
biodiversity. There is a dual need to, on one hand, better understand the contribution of 
organic farming and of the organic sector as a whole to the three dimensions of sustainability, 
and on the other, to improve methods for data collection in the organic sector, in a way that 
reduces administrative burden on farmers and on other operators. There is potential for both 
needs to be addressed in combination, and a role for research and innovation to support in 
achieving this objective. 
Proposals should address all the following activities: 
• undertake an exhaustive mapping of existing tools, platforms and methods at EU, 
national and local levels, that allow for the collection of relevant data on organic 
production to comply with the various reporting requirements of the sector, including 
under the Common Agricultural Policy and under the EU organic certification. This 
exercise should include a mapping of the actors involved in the collection of data, as 
well as an analysis of cost -effectiveness, best practices and challenges faced. It should 
also include an assessment of the potential of existing tools to reduce administrative 
burden on organic farmers and on other operators of the organic value chain, as well as 
to streamline data exchange with relevant actors, including certification bodies and 
supply chain actors; 
• facilitate the exchange of experiences and best practices on data collection and reporting 
on organic production across the EU. Identify concrete opportunities for the cross -
fertilisation and transfer of solutions among countries/regions; 
• assess the need, feasibility and cost-effectiveness of leveraging existing data collected by 
organic certification bodies in a way that it can simultaneously be used to assess the 
contribution of organic production to the three axes of sustainability (economic, 
environmental, social). This should include an analysis of existing standards for the 
interoperability of agricultural digital systems, and identification of opportunities and 
challenges; 
• develop recommendations, including in relation to governance, for the effective use of 
current tools for data collection, considering differences across the EU Member States; 
• organise and implement training activities targeted to organic farmers and other 
operators of the organic value chains, to build their capacities to collect relevant data to 
comply with the reporting obligations on organic production. This should include 
networking activities to foster cooperation among actors in the organic agri -food supply 
chains with a view to increasing overall efficiency of the organic sector for data 
collection.  
Proposals should address all EU Member States. Proposals under this topic should support the 
implementation of the EU Action Plan for the Development of Organic Production 200 and of 
the EU regulatory framework for organic farming, and contribute to the objectives of the 
Vision for Agriculture and Food 201 , the Common Agricultural Policy, and the EU’s 
biodiversity, zero pollution and climate policies. 
Both crop and livestock production systems under organic production are in scope of this 
topic. 
Proposals must implement the multi -actor approach and ensure adequate involvement of the 
main stakeholders involved in the organic sector, and including a range of actors to ensure 
that different sources of knowledge and perspectives are brought together. The needs and 
expertise of all relevant actors, including certification bodies, should be duly considered in the 
activities. Proposals should capitalise on existing knowledge and tools, such as the Farm 
Sustainability Data Network (FSDN) 202. Proposals should build on the results of relevant 
past/ongoing EU-funded R&I projects relevant for the organic farming sector, as well as of 
other relevant related work/studies, and on any relevant activities funded under the Digital 
Europe Programme. Proposals should include a dedicated task, appropriate resources and a 
plan on how they will collaborate with other relevant ongoing and upcoming EU -funded R&I 
projects and initiatives, including the Horizon Europe Partnership ‘Agroecology’ and the 
project that may follow from the topic “HORIZON -CL6-2024-GOVERNANCE-02-01: 
European Partnership of Agriculture of Data”.