HORIZON-CL6-2026-03-GOVERNANCE-07: Interconnect Earth Observation 
research for addressing environmental policies 
Call: Call 03 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 5.40 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 5.40 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or as 
an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties. The support 
to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000337 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 338. 
 
Expected Outcome : Successful proposals should contribute to the expected impact of this 
Destination on competitiveness, sustainability and resilience of the economy enabled by more 
accessible and interoperable environmental observations and improved Earth Intelligence. 
Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• a single -entry point linking European research and policymaking embedded in the 
European Commission's Knowledge Centre on Earth Observation (KCEO) 339  as 
‘scientific pillar’, with the objective to collect and organise knowledge resulting from 
science that is relevant for European and international environmental policies and 
conventions (notably those related to biodiversity), in particular knowledge generated 
from EU-funded R&I projects, relevant infrastructures and platforms; 
• a strengthened and structured EuroGEO EO Community building on the competences of 
its Action Groups and the Member States’ uptake actions (e.g. as through the Copernicus 
National Collaboration Programme) offering to its members services reflecting Europe’s 
EO vision for Earth Intelligence in the post-2025 global GEO; 
• the timely contribution to the update, under the guidance of the KCEO of a policy driven 
Earth observation R&I Roadmap for the next Multiannual Financial Framework 
(Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda).  
Scope: Earth Observation (EO) research is interconnected across Europe, supporting and 
enhancing the ambition of national, European and international policies and conventions. 
Contributing to Europe’s competitiveness and the European Green Deal, the topic aims to 
give support to the development and implementation of EU policies, including environmental 
policies (notably those related to biodiversity) through knowledge generation, to guide 
governance, and help implementing the simplification agenda. It supports the evolution of the 
long-term strategic research agenda for earth observation by engaging with EO stakeholders. 
 
This call topic provides an Earth Observation Science Service as a dedicated tool to 
systematically insert the best EO science into EU climate and environmental policymaking 
valorising last mile policy applications building on core services provided through 
Copernicus. 
To address those objectives, proposals under this topic should: 
• build a consolidated and structured EuroGEO community able to provide competitive 
services such as the setting up of a R&I observatory, linking past and present research 
investments to policy needs for EO, and the support to the co -design of the necessary 
tools and methods to create earth intelligence from EO data and services; 
• engage community through annual fora bringing together the relevant EO communities 
to take stock of the research and innovation priorities in support of uptake of EO in EU 
climate and environmental policies; 
• foresee cooperation with the KCEO; 
• address cross-cutting policy issues such as the use of EO in support of policy obligation, 
certification, official statistics, reporting simplification and compliance; 
• demonstrate how Europe can test and lead the way on how Earth intelligence can help 
developing innovative products and services addressing policy needs in Europe and 
beyond.  
Proposals may provide, when relevant, financial support to third parties (FSTP) to, for 
instance, 
• develop, test or validate EO intelligence creation approaches or 
• collect and prepare data sets or 
• provide other contributions to achieve the project objectives such as prototype last mile 
policy applications, building on core services provided through Copernicus, addressing 
the continued and critical gap in knowledge sharing and complementing other EU -
funded initiatives.  
A maximum of 30% of the EU funding should be allocated to this purpose. Consortia need to 
define the selection process of organisations, for which financial support may be granted. 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may join as member the consortium selected for funding, to 
ensure a close collaboration with the KCEO.