HORIZON-CL6-2026-02-FARM2FORK-04: Accelerating the development of breeding 
tools for perennial crops, specifically fruits and nuts 
Call: Call 02 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Legal and financial The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 152. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP). The 
support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• cutting-edge, scalable and accessible tools and methods are available to accelerate the 
breeding of productive, qualitative, climate -smart and environment -friendly perennial 
crops, enhancing the competitiveness of the sector and fostering biodiversity; 
• researchers and breeders have access to user-friendly and innovative plant breeding tools 
that allow faster enhancement of sustainability traits, including pest and disease 
resistance, stable yield and quality, water use efficiency and resistance to abiotic 
stressors.  
Scope: Despite the crucial role that woody perennial crops such as fruits and nuts play in our 
diets, as well as their importance for global economies, biodiversity conservation and climate 
change mitigation, traditional breeding methods for these crops remain slow and labour -
intensive due to long gestation periods (juvenile phase) and complex genetics. This hinders 
the timely development of perennial breeds to cope with challenges like climate change, pests 
and diseases, impacting among others crop productivity. Developing user -friendly tools that 
can be effectively transferred to breeders will boost the impact and efficiency of breeding 
programs for perennial crops. 
Proposals should: 
• develop new and/or improved tools and methods aimed at shortening generation time 
and overall breeding cycle in perennial crops, while enhancing sustainability traits such 
as pest and disease resistance, yield stability, quality and adaptation to climate changes; 
• assess the scalability and accessibility of the tools and methods and ensure the provision 
of the required dataset and info for their effective implementation; 
 
• implement genomic selection tools and models – taking into account interactions 
between genotypes and environment - into actual breeding schemes for perennial crops 
and study the empirical results of these models to determine their accuracy, reliability, 
and applicability and improve their effectiveness for commercial settings; 
• validate the tools across different species or breeding objectives to ensure reliability and 
replicability and develop standardized protocols and guidelines for their use in 
consultation with breeders to facilitate the effective adoption and utilisation of the 
tools/methods; 
• evaluate the newly developed tools and methods for potential trade -offs, unintended 
outcomes and potential effects on the environment.  
All breeding approaches are in the scope of this topic. Proposals should target fruit and/or nut 
crops153. 
Proposals may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP) to, for instance, cross -test the 
tools developed in different species and facilitate the engagement of SMEs for testing in 
commercial settings. 
Proposals should build on the results of relevant projects funded under Horizon 2020 and 
Horizon Europe and ensure collaboration with relevant ongoing projects. 
Proposals are encouraged to consider, where relevant, the data, expertise and services offered 
by European research infrastructure154 in the environment, biological and food domains. 
The projects under this topic are relevant to the EU policies related to the EU Vision for 
Agriculture and Food by promoting plant breeding innovations, including new genomic 
techniques (NGTs), the Commission communication on: Building the future with nature: 
Boosting Biotechnology and Biomanufacturing in the EU155 and the Life Sciences Strategy.