HORIZON-CL6-2027-01-ZEROPOLLUTION-04: Europe -wide environmental 
benchmarking system of the industrial bioeconomy sectors 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 3.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 3.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 297. 
 
Expected Outcome: The successful proposal funded under this topic will provide guidelines to 
industrial operators as well as administrators for contributing to the objectives of the 
Industrial and Livestock Rearing Emissions Directive, the Clean Industrial Deal and the Zero -
pollution Action Plan, addressing technical goals in the scope of the Communication on 
boosting biotechnology and biomanufacturing in the EU and in the new EU bioeconomy 
strategy. 
Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• innovative circular industrial bio -based systems – including biotechnologies and 
biomanufacturing – within the EU bioeconomy are deployed to decrease the 
environmental footprint of industries, not harm biodiversity and address climate 
neutrality.  
Scope: Industrial bio-based systems – made by the supply chain of bio -based feedstock and 
the industrial value chains - are key elements for the establishment of a fossil-free economy in 
the EU and Associated Countries (AC). Innovative industrial bio-based systems - also enabled 
by biotechnology applications - have the capacity to deliver products and services with 
improved environmental performances. To support the deployment of the best among such 
systems, it is necessary to create a framework which facilitate the benchmarking. The 
European Innovation Centre for Industrial Transformation and Emissions (INCITE) - based 
on the recently revised Industrial and Livestock Rearing Emission Directive (IED 2.0) - 
collects information on innovative techniques, including emerging 298  and transformative 
techniques, and assesses their level of development and their environmental performance, 
including their cost-effectiveness and their trade-offs. 
Proposals should: 
 
• establish a forum of experts and stakeholders in the bioeconomy and in industrial bio -
based systems, including representatives from academia, industry, and government. 
Members of the forum should be part of the project consortium and should cover, at 
least, the specific sectors as described in the bullet point below; 
• animate the work of the forum to:        
 select and collect data on emerging techniques (as defined in Art. 3.14 of the IED 
2.0) along the whole supply and value chain of industrial bio -based systems, on a 
worldwide basis, but especially those being tested or used in the EU and ACs. 
Assess their level of development and environmental performance, including their 
cost-effectiveness and trade-offs. Industrial bio-based systems in scope of this topic 
do not include food/feed, biofuels/bioenergy and health and medical devices;    
 align the selection, the collection of relevant data and the assessment of such 
techniques with the approach of the European Innovation Centre for Industrial 
Transformation and Emissions (INCITE) and with the EU Bioeconomy Monitoring 
(Knowledge Centre for Bioeconomy);    
 give emphasis on relevant emerging techniques including, but not limited to, 
specific sectors: i) pulp & paper and bio -based chemicals, including the treatments 
and further conversion of industrial residues and waste from these sectors, ii) 
mechanical and chemical recycling of bio -based plastic, iii) bioremediation 
applications - also enabled by biotechnology - to remediate and regenerate polluted 
ecosystems. The scope of bioremediation applications should include landfills and 
mining;    
 include data on climate change mitigation/adaptation and on the capacity for 
biodiversity protection and enhancement of the selected techniques, where relevant;    
 align the collection of life cycle assessment (LCA) information, according to the 
Environmental Footprint recommendation, and the methodological guidance of the 
voluntary Safe and Sustainable by Design (SSbD) Framework299, where applicable;   
• integrate the collected information and data into the Sevilla process through INCITE and 
into the EU Bioeconomy Monitoring (Knowledge Centre for Bioeconomy).  
International cooperation is encouraged, for example in the collection of data on emerging 
techniques. 
Synergies with projects funded under the topics on bioeconomy in the current and past Cluster 
6 work programmes, and with projects assessing the best practices in the biofuels/bioenergy 
sectors under Cluster 5 work programmes are encouraged. 
 
