HORIZON-CL6-2026-01-CIRCBIO-01-two-stage: Deploying circular systemic solutions 
through living labs in cities and regions (Circular Cities and Regions Initiative topic) 
Call: Call 01 - two stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 5.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
 
project proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 10.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: at least five (5) 
distinct ‘living labs’ linked to regional or local authorities (and possibly 
together with their public and/or private ecosystem actors operating in 
their respective territories) must be part of the consortium as 
beneficiaries, among which at least two (2) living labs must be from 
different demonstration sites and another three (3) from other and 
different replication sites. 1 out of the 3 replication sites must be located 
in Horizon Europe widening countries (including Outermost Regions). 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: the proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 248. 
 
Expected Outcome:   
Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• increased circularity and reduced emissions of greenhouse gases and air pollutants in the 
economic sectors, services and product value chains at local and/or regional scale This 
also includes an efficient valorisation of local resources, with positive effects on air and 
water quality as well as on biodiversity; 
 
• widespread deployment and easier replication, scalability and visibility of circular 
systemic solutions for a multiplication of their economic, social and environmental 
benefits; 
• enhanced collaboration and knowledge transfer between public authorities (cities and 
regions), companies, research and citizens in addressing environmental challenges, such 
as climate-change, resource depletion and biodiversity loss.   
Scope: This topic supports the implementation of the European Commission’s Circular Cities 
and Regions Initiative  (CCRI). It builds on a series of CCRI -related topics funded under 
Horizon 2020 and Horizon Europe, and replicated every one to two programming year since 
2021. The goal is to accelerate place-based innovation, boost skills and capacities and support 
the implementation of solutions for a circular systemic transition at city or region level. 
Implementing circular systemic solutions reduces environmental impacts and contribute to the 
preservation of biodiversity, by decreasing the extraction of primary raw materials and 
minimizing waste generation. 
This topic specifically focuses on moving from demonstration to further deployment and 
upscaling through the setup of well -functioning real-life innovation ecosystem, such as living 
labs. This topic targets public local and regional authorities (or their groupings) in EU 
Member States and Associated Countries. Proposed living labs should enable systematic 
participation of all ecosystem stakeholder in targeted cities and regions to co -create solutions 
that are practical, relevant, and readily applicable. These stakeholders include citizens, 
policymakers, research bodies, academia, industries, start -ups and SMEs, social economy 
entities and financial intermediaries. In line with the nature of living labs, projects must adopt 
the multi -actor approach to involve end -users. The actors involved in each living lab may 
vary, based on its unique characteristics. Proposals should set up engaging and effective 
governance structures, facilitate collaboration and coordination, and ensure continuous 
feedback and monitoring to enable an iterative and flexible process. Proposals should 
integrate systemic socio-ecological approaches and involve the effective contribution of SSH 
disciplines (e.g., economics, politics, sociology, psychology, gender studies). 
Proposals should support the validation, testing and optimisation of innovative, circular 
systemic solutions in selected cities/regions (the ‘demonstrators’), along with relevant 
governance models and business plans. This CCRI -related topic does not target specific 
technologies or industrial sectors but supports a place -based approach. This means that 
proposals should select their targeted sector(s) and/or value chain(s), based on a detailed 
analysis of the local/regional contexts and specific circular potentials. 
Proposals should facilitate knowledge and experience transfer for further outreach and large 
scale replication across Europe. Proposals should turn their insights into actionable 
recommendations, identifying the lessons learned, specifying the enabling framework, main 
barriers and enablers, business case, and other relevant factors for successful replication and 
upscaling in other cities and/or regions (the ‘replicators’). 
At least two different demonstration and three replication ‘living labs’ (incl. cities/regions – 
possibly together with their public and/or private ecosystem partners in their territory) must be 
part of the consortium. One out of the three replication labs must be located in Horizon 
Europe widening countries (including Outermost Regions). 
Proposals should clearly specify how they will ensure synergies and complementarities with 
other relevant circular economy projects and initiatives, including those recognised as CCRI 
Projects 249  and CCRI Associated Partners 250 . In that sense, proposals should include a 
dedicated task, appropriate resources and a plan on how they will collaborate with the CCRI 
office, projects and partners (e.g. thematic discussion groups, joint events, joint R&I gap 
analysis and policy briefs). Clustering and dissemination activities will be facilitated and 
supported by the CCRI Coordination and Support Office to ease knowledge exchange, foster 
solution replication and uptake, and maximise impact. 
This topic contributes to the objectives of the European Green Deal and the Clean Industrial 
Deal, in particular the 2020 circular economy action plan (CEAP), as well as the new EU 
bioeconomy strategy. It also supports the Start-ups and Scale-ups strategy by fostering placed-
based (social, technological and non -technological) innovation to make European cities and 
regions more circular, resilient and competitive. 
Linkages with relevant initiatives such as the Regional Innovation Valleys, the New European 
Bauhaus and the Climate -Neutral and Smart Cities Mission and the Adaptation to Climate 
Change Mission should be explored – whenever relevant.