HORIZON-CL6-2026-01-CIRCBIO-07: Advancing the European bio -based innovation 
enabled by biotechnology and biomanufacturing concepts 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 235. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• significant advance in the development of innovation in biotechnology, life sciences 
and/or biomanufacturing concepts, preparing future deployment of bio -based and bio -
inspired processes, products and materials, as a basis for sustainable, fair, safe and 
circular value chains, contributing to decarbonisation, industrial competitiveness and the 
strategic autonomy of the EU and Associated Countries; 
• improved environmental sustainability of the developed innovative bio -based solutions, 
with positive and quantifiable impact on climate and biodiversity, and circularity of the 
European bioeconomy via enhanced resource efficiency, including of biological 
feedstocks, water and energy, integrating bio -based sector to minimize and remediate 
waste production.  
Scope: Actions funded under this topic are relevant to the EU policies related to the European 
Commission communication on ‘Building the future with nature: Boosting Biotechnology and 
Biomanufacturing in the EU’, the Life Sciences Strategy, the upcoming EU Biotech Act, and 
Circular Economy Act, the EU strategy on research and technology infrastructure, the Clean 
Industrial Deal and the policies related to the digital transition (e.g. AI Act, etc.). It also 
contributes to the Start-ups and Scale-ups Strategy. 
Proposals should address the following activities: 
 
• identify, select and develop further promising selected key technologies underpinning 
the bio -based innovation/industry, in particular R&D on synthetic/molecular biology, 
gene editing, metabolic engineering, microbiome 236 , and/or biofoundry approaches, 
covering all applications aiming at clean growth and environmental solutions. 
Advancing towards validation at a pilot-scale is encouraged, to enable future 
exploitation. The applications in health biotechnology, as well as the biofuel/bioenergy 
area are excluded, to avoid overlaps with Horizon Europe Clusters 1 and 5, respectively; 
• ensure the integration of digital technologies (e.g. AI/Machine Learning, 
bioinformatics); 
• advance the convergence of biotech and life sciences developed under the first point 
with Nature -based Solutions, e.g. for environmental applications, carbon 
sequestration 237 , biodiversity protection/enhancement, aligned with (bio -)circular 
economy principles (e.g. cascading biomass use), ensuring the environmental fate and 
sustainability is considered quantitatively at the earliest stage and ensuring safety to 
human health and environment is addressed and guaranteed; 
• develop recommendations for policy makers and industrial actors, taking into account 
the available scientifically sound assessment of risks and benefits of the developed 
solutions.   
Proposals should involve SMEs – both as project beneficiaries and as external actors – and 
offer opportunities to newcomers (to Horizon Europe Cluster 6). Proposals should also engage 
with the civil society stakeholders such as NGOs and consumer organisations to seek 
stakeholder involvement and acceptance, thus advancing scale -up and facilitating future 
market uptake. Proposals need to ensure compliance with the ‘Do no significant harm’ 
(DNSH) principle. 
Proposals are encouraged to consider, where relevant, the data, expertise and services offered 
by European research infrastructures 238, such as EMSO ERIC, EU -OPENSCREEN, ELIXIR, 
EMBRC ERIC, IBISBA. Efforts should be made to ensure that the data produced in the 
context of this topic is FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Re-usable). 
Cooperation with the parallel projects funded under topic HORIZON -CL6-2026-01-
CIRCBIO-10: Bio -based innovation in society: supporting the sustainable way of living is 
encouraged, to benefit from synergies and avoid overlaps. Similarly, activities should benefit 
from synergies and avoid overlaps with ongoing projects, e.g. funded under the topic 
HORIZON-CL6-2022-CIRCBIO-02-05-two-stage: Life sciences and their convergence with 
digital technologies for prospecting, understanding and sustainably using biological resources, 
 
topic HORIZON-CL6-2023-CIRCBIO-01: Broadening the spectrum of robust enzymes and 
microbial hosts in industrial biotechnology, under topics related to bioprospecting such as 
HORIZON-CL6-2025-01-CIRCBIO-14: Bioprospecting and optimised production of 
marine/aquatic natural products in the omics & artificial intelligence era and HORIZON-CL6-
2025-01-CIRCBIO-08: Bioprospecting and optimized production of the terrestrial natural 
products: new opportunities for bio -based sectors or those to be funded under the topic 
HORIZON-CL6-2025-01-CIRCBIO-10: Support to the EU Biotechnology and 
Biomanufacturing Initiative: scoping action. 
Cooperation between all projects funded under this topic should be also foreseen, as a specific 
task, with an allocation of resources, for synergies. 
This topic requires the effective contribution of SSH disciplines and involvement of SSH 
experts in order to produce meaningful and significant effects enhancing the societal impact 
of the related research activities. International cooperation is encouraged.