HORIZON-CL6-2026-02-FARM2FORK-09: Sustainable and healthy diets for 
cardiovascular diseases prevention with the support of digital applications 
Call: Call 02 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
5.00 and 6.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 11.80 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start from TRL 5 in order to achieve TRL 7 
by the end of the project – see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Agreements Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 161. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes: 
• identified the effects of sustainable and healthy diets on the gut microbiome and on the 
cardiovascular system (as well as through possible interlinks between the two) using AI 
and digital tools by considering different groups of the population (children, adults and 
older population) as well as gender; 
• increased knowledge generated through the use of AI and existing digital tools on how to 
help people improving their eating habits by choosing healthy diets to prevent 
cardiovascular disease. Development of a new tool or scaling up of an existing tool that 
patients/individuals can use to guide them in their day to day eating habits with a 
personalised approach. Identified robust economic cost -benefit analysis, together with 
real end-user involvement and demonstration; 
• the scientific communication on the link between sustainable and healthy diet (which 
also includes food ingredients and processing food technology) and the prevention of 
cardiovascular diseases is translated into digital health solutions developed by SMEs and 
start-ups; 
• improved understanding of the link between the decrease of specific nutritional risk 
factors and the increase of beneficial nutritional intake in the prevention of 
cardiovascular diseases, through the support of digital solutions developed by SMEs and 
start-ups.   
Scope: The topic is relevant to the EU policies related to the ‘Healthier Together’ initiative, 
the Commission Communication on the European Health Union 162  and the Council 
conclusions on the improvement of cardiovascular health in the European Union 163, the R&I 
Food 2030 framework and the Strategy for European Life Sciences. 
Proposals should address all the following activities: 
 
• investigate the host -microbiota interactions, standardised biomarkers, involving 
inflammatory and metabolic pathways or other pathways to elucidate the relationship 
between changes in the diet, the gut microbiome and cardiovascular risk. Develop and 
test nutrition approaches based on microbiome profiles of different populations (based 
on gender, age, genetic background). Identify the effects of sustainable and healthy diets 
on the cardiovascular system using AI and digital tools by considering different groups 
of the population (based on gender, children, adults and older population); 
• map the existing digital health solutions (including existing hubs) related to the reduction 
of cardiovascular diseases linked to unhealthy diets and nutrition; 
• develop and provide user friendly digital solutions for authorities, national institutes, and 
healthcare and nutritional professionals which also consider the cost and the benefits also 
for the end -users. These solutions should also benefit patients in the monitoring of 
cardiovascular diseases and individuals identified at risk to develop the disease; 
• ensure that SMEs and start -ups should facilitate the successful deployment and 
commercialization of digital solutions and should be actively involved in expanding data 
integration across various healthcare systems and in analysing health data to provide 
insights on the link between diet and cardiovascular health.  
Proposals should involve the effective contribution of SSH disciplines. Experts in behavioural 
sciences and psychology, for instance, might help better understanding the perception and 
uptake of digital solutions, the diet consumption aspect and the eating habits of different 
demographic groups. 
The multi -actor approach is encouraged. Proposals should include industry and innovative 
SMEs in the consortia and ensure an early engagement of authorities, national institutes, 
healthcare and nutritional professionals, patients as well as experts on advanced digital tools 
for the co-design, testing and adoption of the digital solutions and tool. 
Projects are encouraged to explore complementarities and exploit potential synergies with the 
projects funded under the topics HORIZON -HLTH-2026-01-DISEASE-11: Understanding of 
gender-specific mechanisms of cardiovascular diseases: determinants, risk factors and 
pathways and HORIZON -HLTH-2027-01-TOOL-01: Development of predictive biomarkers 
of disease progression and treatment response by using AI methodologies for chronic non -
communicable diseases, once information on the funded projects is available.