HORIZON-CL6-2027-02-FARM2FORK-01: Increasing the resilience of agriculture in 
water and nutrient-scarce environments through digital innovations 
Call: Call 02 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: the proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B.  
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 191. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• farmers have increased access to digital tools and advice to improve their resilience to 
water and nutrient scarcity; 
• farmers are better prepared for the Green Transition and EU’s new plan for sustainable 
prosperity and competitiveness; 
• biodiversity benefits from decreasing water, air and soil pollution while European 
dependency on mineral fertilisers is reduced.   
Scope: A key challenge for the agricultural sector is to provide food in a context of increasing 
global population, climate change and price volatility while reducing pollution and preserving 
natural resources and biodiversity for future generations. Farmers should be able to adopt 
innovative solutions to increase the resilience to water and to nutrient scarcity. Digital and 
data technologies offer solutions to monitor parameters (e.g. soil conditions, water and air 
quality, nutrients content and availability) in a cost -efficient manner while supporting 
decision-making on input management, adapt to climate change, contribute to cleaner air and 
biodiversity. 
Proposals should: 
• improve knowledge on the complex interactions between plant, soil, water, air and 
nutrients (Nitrogen, Phosphorus) in view of climate change in the EU and its impacts on 
crop production, farming systems (including crop protection use) and the environment, 
in a representative number of different pedoclimatic regions; 
• develop and test monitoring devices and systems that can take into account the findings 
on the interactions described in the previous point, considering their easy integration into 
other farm management information systems (FMIS) or decision support systems (DSS), 
and the affordability and accessibility to farmers (such as low connectivity in certain 
rural areas, digital knowledge, health impairments/disability, etc.); 
• develop and test AI -enabled decision support systems to better monitor and assess the 
effects of agricultural practices and land management measures in terms of water and 
nutrient use taking into account different pedoclimatic zones, local conditions and farm 
characteristics, their impact on pollution (water, soil) and benefits for biodiversity; 
 
• create sets of high -quality AI training data to support the development of DSS with the 
objective to improve water and nutrient resilience of different farming systems, and 
make them publicly available, considering legal clarity, sustainable access, transparent 
documentation and metadata, harmonised and standardised protocols; 
• identify potential barriers and enablers for translation of these R&I developments into 
practical and commercial digital tools and for the adoption by end -users (especially 
related to trust and transparency, and the needs of persons with disabilities such as 
accessibility of the information), as well as characterise remaining knowledge, training 
and/or advice gaps, and needs for policy feedback.  
The projects under this topic are relevant to the EU policies related to the EU Vision for 
Agriculture and Food, the EU Action Plan for the Development of Organic Production 192, 
Europe fit for the Digital Age, the Climate Adaptation Strategy, the Zero Pollution Action 
Plan, the Clean Air directives, the EU biodiversity strategy for 2030 and the European Water 
Resilience Strategy. 
Proposals must implement the multi -actor approach, with a consortium based on a balanced 
mix of actors with complementary knowledge, including farmers, researchers, advisors, 
technology providers and business partners. 
This topic requires the effective contribution of SSH disciplines and the involvement of SSH 
experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce 
meaningful and significant effects enhancing the societal impact of the related research 
activities. 
Proposals should address various farming systems/approaches, one of which should be 
organic farming. 
Where appropriate, proposals should use and complement capacities and infrastructures 
created under the Digital Europe Program (incl. European Data Spaces, EDIHs) as well as the 
EURO HPC and EU AI Factory infrastructures. Proposals should also comply with existing 
EU framework and strategies, and build upon the concepts and solutions developed in other 
EU initiatives aimed to facilitate data sharing, such as the Common European Agricultural 
Data Space (CEADS). 
Proposals are encouraged to engage in international cooperation and to build on the results of 
relevant projects funded under Horizon 2020 and Horizon Europe and ensure collaboration 
with relevant ongoing and forthcoming projects under the PRIMA and Agriculture of Data 
partnerships, the JRC and the European Soil Observatory (EUSO). 
 
