HORIZON-CL6-2026-02-FARM2FORK-03: Boosting the competitiveness of protein 
crops in Europe 
Call: Call 02 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
 
conditions exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: the proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 148. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP). The 
support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• the competitive production of protein crops is boosted across Europe, by developing and 
testing sustainable and cost-effective innovations tailored to different farming systems, 
regions and contexts; 
• farmers profitability is boosted via the integration of protein crops into diversified 
farming systems, the development of local value chains and the valorisation of protein 
crops’ by-products; 
• plant-based proteins production in Europe is increased, contributing to greater 
economical and environmental sustainability (including agrobiodiversity) and 
strengthening the European food and feed autonomy.  
 
Scope: Protein crops149 can play a key role in advancing sustainable and resilient European 
agriculture offering environmental, agronomic, economic and nutritional benefits. Despite 
their potential, the production and use of protein crops in Europe remains limited and require 
targeted efforts to scale up. Several barriers continue to hinder their development, including 
the lack of adapted local protein crops for the different European environmental conditions, 
the limited availability of effective and safe pest management practices and tools, the 
inadequacy of the machinery used in their production, poor infrastructure for processing and 
marketing, the absence of well -established local value chains, etc. A key element for a wide 
adoption of protein crops by farmers is demonstrating their potential benefits (economic 
competitiveness, environmental impacts, social engagement, adaptability) that enhance their 
market value and appeal. 
Proposals should: 
• develop innovative solutions tailored to different conditions across the EU (agro -
climatic, edaphic, socio-economic), to address key challenges hindering the inclusion of 
protein crops into diverse cropping systems. This should be done at farm level 
(addressing for instance yield, quality, resource optimization and resilience of protein 
crops under varying climatic and soil conditions) as well as the whole agri -food value 
chain (such as access to marketing outlets), increasing the competitiveness of protein 
crops; 
• promote circular bioeconomy by valorising protein crops’ by -products to develop 
economically viable and resilient farming models that enhance farmer profitability and 
reduce production risks. Explore and demonstrate innovative pathways for converting 
protein crops’ by-products into safe feed and food sources. If relevant, build on already 
identified protein crop by-products and value chains to develop concrete case studies that 
showcase practical circular and successful business models; 
• develop or adapt innovative and scalable integrated pest 150  and weed management 
strategies tailored for protein crops to enhance crop resilience, soil health, and 
productivity across a wide range of production systems and climate conditions, while 
limiting the impact on the environment and ensuring food safety; 
• conduct a comprehensive cost -benefit evaluation of the proposed approaches and 
solutions to ensure overall feasibility across diverse farming system; 
• explore, test and adapt available machinery for sowing, field management, harvesting 
and postharvest operations, tailored to different protein crops. Consider, if relevant, the 
integration of digital/AI tools. Propose viable avenues for increasing access to this 
specific equipment, including through cooperatives/producers’ associations or 
collaborating with SMEs/startups; 
 
• support farmers to transition to the incorporation of protein crops in the European 
production systems by widely sharing practical knowledge through existing advisory 
networks, digital platforms or capacity building programmes and potentially deployed at 
large scale. Create diverse practice -oriented dissemination materials, such as 
audiovisuals, brochures, presentations, that showcase innovations in a creative way, 
incorporating artistic elements for engaging storytelling.  
Proposals must implement the multi -actor approach including a range of actors to ensure that 
knowledge and needs from various sectors are brought together. An active participation of 
farmers, retailers, SMEs and consumers is encouraged, in local protein crops value chains, 
through the development of near -farm activities to drive local innovation. Beneficiaries. may 
provide financial support to third parties (FSTP) to, for instance, engage SME’s or startups to 
develop, test and demonstrate the proposed innovative solutions. 
Proposals should address diverse farming systems/approaches, including conventional and 
organic farming. 
Proposals should include a dedicated task, appropriate resources and a plan on how they will 
collaborate with other relevant projects in particular those to be funded under the topic 
"HORIZON-CL6-2027-02-FARM2FORK-05: Enhancing farmers profitability and resilience 
through innovations for diversified crops and value chains". Moreover, proposals should build 
on existing knowledge and the results of other relevant projects funded under previous work 
programmes. 
The projects under this topic are relevant to the EU policies related to the objectives of the 
common agricultural policy, the EU Action Plan on the Development of Organic 
Production151, align with the Vision for Agriculture and Food, and support the EU's ambition 
to increase plant protein production and reduce reliance on imports.