HORIZON-CL6-2027-01-BIODIV-07: Health of ecosystems and wild species, 
predictions and impacts on human health, in the face of existing and emerging stressors, 
from a One Health approach 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 7.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 14.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 126. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes: 
• transdisciplinary research communities work together to predict the health of ecosystems 
and wild species (including physiology, genetic diversity, population distribution and 
ecology) in the face of the existing and emerging stressors induced by the indirect and 
direct drivers of biodiversity loss (including but not restricted to climate change and 
pollution), through increased knowledge and monitoring; 
• policymakers, public authorities, stakeholders and citizens better understand the 
interlinkages between wild species and ecosystems health, domestic animal and plant 
health and human health. The progress of public authorities and policymakers towards a 
comprehensive One Health governance is assessed, thanks to the development of 
science-based indicators.  
Scope: The One Health approach recognises the inherent connection between the health of 
ecosystems, wildlife, humans, domestic animals and plants. This approach is key to prevent, 
anticipate, detect and respond to health threats across sectors. It has the potential to reduce the 
impact and societal and economic costs of such threats and prevent their emergence, while 
also reducing pressures on the environment, contributing to food security and ensuring access 
to clean air and water. 
Proposals should support the objectives and the implementation of the EU Green Deal, the EU 
biodiversity strategy for 2030, and the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework as 
well as the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) Global Action Plan on Biodiversity 
and Health127. Proposals should seek the mainstreaming of the One Health approach, address 
the knowledge gaps identified by IPBES assessments, and provide policy recommendations. 
Proposals should: 
• describe the current health status of the ecosystems and wild species most susceptible to 
interact with human health (including terrestrial, freshwater and marine ones, with no 
geographical restrictions). Describe the impact of the stressors induced by the drivers of 
biodiversity loss and changes in ecosystem dynamics on their health, meaning their 
physiology, genetic diversity, population distribution and ecology. Taking into 
consideration the most updated scientific scenarios (e.g. IPBES nexus assessment), 
predict the future health status of these ecosystems and wild species in the short, mid and 
long term; 
 
• propose benchmark protocols to ensure comparability between research communities 
(including social sciences and humanities) and define common indicators describing the 
risks (e.g. loss of ecosystem services, exposure to pollutants and pathogens) and benefits 
(e.g. dilution effect, exposure to beneficial microorganisms, etc.) of the interlinkages of 
wild species and ecosystem health, domestic animal and plant health and human health. 
This includes the integration of ecosystem and wildlife health in the exposome approach; 
• assess the impacts of the degradation of ecosystem and wildlife health on human health, 
including a cost-benefit analysis of nature restoration and conservation projects in terms 
of human health benefits and the costs of inaction. This should include disability and 
intersectional aspects and the groups in the most vulnerable situations in society (e.g. 
low-income communities, youth, older people, persons with disabilities, LGBTIQ 
people, people with racial or religious minority background). Based on this, provide 
actionable policy recommendations for policymakers and authorities in establishing a 
One Health policy framework.  
Proposals should foresee appropriate resources to ensure close cooperation with the EC 
Knowledge Centre for