HORIZON-CL6-2026-01-BIODIV-05: Advancing integrated scenarios and prediction 
models for informing transition to a nature positive society 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 5.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 10.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 98. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes: 
• advanced knowledge and understanding how ecosystems respond to multiple plausible 
futures shaped by human -induced pressures, supporting the design of long -term, nature 
positive and equitable policies; 
• strengthened collaboration across bio -physical, socio-economic and humanities 
disciplines, resulting in more integrated and robust scenario frameworks that capture 
interactions, trade -offs and synergies across biodiversity, climate, food, water, air, 
health, energy and economy; 
• advancement of comprehensive ecosystem prediction models and scenario -based 
assessments that integrate direct and indirect drivers of biodiversity loss, applicable 
across terrestrial, freshwater and marine ecosystems; 
• a consistent and transparent framework for model intercomparison and cross -scale 
scenario building, improving the relevance and usability of modelling outputs for policy , 
 
business and international assessments (e.g., IPBES, International Panel on Climate 
Change - IPCC).  
Scope: To address the objectives of the European Green Deal, the EU biodiversity strategy for 
2030, the EU Nature Restoration Regulation and the Kunming -Montreal Global Biodiversity 
Framework (GBF), as well as Sustainable Development Goals, actions funded under this topic 
should support the scientific development of A) integrated scenarios, B) predictive models 
and C) model intercomparison experiments for Member States and Associated Countries. 
Developments should be verified in case studies covering at least 2 European biogeographic 
regions99 and spanning key economic sectors to inform systemic policy transformations and 
enable long-term planning for a nature positive society. Proposals should: 
• design and develop components of a European integrated prediction and scenario 
framework to forecast how natural ecosystems respond to a wide range of human -
induced ecosystem interactions including climate change, pollution, socio -economic 
transitions such as conflicts, pressures, and policy interventions. These frameworks 
should link ecosystem functions with key economic sectors, such as agriculture and 
fisheries, and test their resilience and tipping points under multiple plausible futures; 
• make use of long-term monitoring data across biodiversity, land use, climate, and socio -
economic variables to improve reliability and real -world relevance. They should also 
quantify uncertainty in model projections and ensure scenarios incorporate dynamic 
feedback loops between ecosystems and socio -economic systems, and identify risk 
distributions relevant to frontline socio-ecological communities; 
• test and assess the suitability of the IPBES Nature Futures Framework for European 
application and align modelling approaches with international efforts and assessments 
under IPBES and IPCC. Proposals should seek to address knowledge gaps identified by 
the relevant IPBES assessments and if appropriate provide recommendations to 
policymakers; 
• advance model intercomparison capabilities to improve robustness, consistency and 
transparency in scenario -based assessments. To this end, the suitability of remote 
sensing data for scalability and intercomparison between different models and across 
different regions should be assessed.  
Proposals should include case studies that cover at least two European biogeographic regions 
with global relevance to verify the developed scenarios, models and intercomparison 
experiments. Case studies should consider different geographical scales and explore 
ecosystem tele coupling across Europe and beyond. Scenario development should involve 
relevant stakeholders —including public authorities, economic sectors, and civil society —in 
co-creating narratives and ensuring policy applicability. Socio -economic transitions and 
equity and justice considerations concerning trade -offs and distributional impacts across 
regions and communities (i.e. across biodiversity, climate, food, water, air, health, energy and 
 
the economy) should be explicitly addressed in scenario assessments. Proposals are 
encouraged to address livelihood and distributional impacts linked to each nature -positive 
pathway. Proposals are encouraged to broadly and publicly communicate developed scenarios 
through interactive simulation interfaces (i.e. at the example of EN-ROADS100). 
Proposals should create synergies with and build on existing knowledge and results of other 
relevant EU-funded projects. Proposals should foresee appropriate resources to ensure close 
cooperation with the EC Knowledge Centre for