HORIZON-CL6-2027-02-COMMUNITIES-02: Empowering local urban food systems 
entrepreneurship and innovation 
Call: Call 02 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
 
project Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: the proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL.  
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 323. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• accelerated growth and success of innovation -led local urban food start -ups, through 
strengthened business development services, access to capital and investment, and 
boosted innovation capacities; 
• empowered urban food entrepreneurs through inclusive, multi -actor governance models 
that foster mentoring, collaboration, and co-creation among local actors; 
• established and interconnected European -wide competitive urban food systems 
innovation ecosystems, scaled and deployed widely, that increase the resilience, 
inclusiveness, and well -being of urban communities through socially innovative and 
climate smart approaches.  
Scope: The successful proposals should drive transformative and inclusive innovation in local 
urban food systems, boosting decentralised competitiveness and creating positive social and 
environmental spillovers that enhance well -being of urban communities. It will contribute to 
 
the European Green Deal priorities and the EU’s climate ambition for 2030 and 2050, while 
aligning with the priorities of the Food 2030 R&I initiative: nutrition for sustainable healthy 
diets, circularity and resource efficiency, innovation and empowering communities. It will 
also support the Clean Industrial Deal, the Competitiveness Compass, in particular, the EU 
Startup and Scaleup Strategy, and contribute to the EU Food System Monitoring Dashboard. 
Proposals should:  
• develop and pilot decentralised local capacities and ecosystems, such as food innovation 
incubators, accelerators and hubs, which support high-impact and sustainable urban food 
solutions. These should provide targeted support and access to capital and investment, 
while connecting fragmented ecosystems across Member States and Associated 
Countries; 
• integrate tailored mentorship programs to stimulate entrepreneurship and start -ups in 
urban food systems and facilitate participatory co -creation of place -based collaborative 
sustainable and climate smart business models, utilising the networks and solutions 
developed through the local capacities; 
• leverage these pilot implementations to accelerate urban food system transformation and 
scalability, ensuring market uptake, scaling and replication across diverse EU contexts, 
while measuring the impact on all dimensions of sustainability by relevant indicators; 
• connect with already established R&I initiatives, such as partnerships, missions, 
platforms, and other relevant projects to derive economically viable, and sustainable, 
business models from these initiatives, accelerating the uptake of research outcomes.  
This topic should involve the effective contribution of Social Sciences and Humanities (SSH) 
disciplines. 
Proposals should integrate the gender dimension where applicable. Consideration of other 
social categories besides gender (disability, age, socioeconomic status, ethnic and/or cultural 
origin, sexual orientation, etc.), and their intersections, should be also ensured. 
Proposals must implement the multi -actor approach, involving local and regional authorities, 
urban planners, SMEs and start -ups, food entrepreneurs, research and innovation actors, 
educational institutions, civil society organisations, and citizens, to co -create inclusive, 
sustainable, and scalable urban food system innovations. 
