HORIZON-CL6-2026-04-GOVERNANCE-01: Additional activities for the European 
Partnership of Agriculture of Data 
Call: Call 04 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
60.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 60.00 million. 
Type of Action Programme Co-fund Action 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: The proposal must be 
submitted by the coordinator of the consortium funded under 
HORIZON-CL6-2024-GOVERNANCE-02-01: European Partnership of 
Agriculture of Data. This eligibility condition is without prejudice to the 
possibility to include additional partners.  
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The evaluation committee may be composed partially by representatives 
of EU institutions. If the proposal is successful, the next stage of the 
procedure will be the grant agreement amendment preparations. If the 
outcome of amendment preparations is an award decision, the 
coordinator of the consortium funded under HORIZON -CL6-2024-
GOVERNANCE-02-01: European Partnership of Agriculture of Data 
will be invited to submit an amendment to the grant agreement, on 
behalf of the beneficiaries. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
This action is intended to be implemented in the form of an amendment 
of the grant agreement concluded pursuant to topic HORIZON -CL6-
2024-GOVERNANCE-02-01. 
For the additional activities covered by this action the funding rate is 
30% of the eligible costs. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP). The 
support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. As a 
co-funded European Partnership, providing financial support to third 
parties (FSTP) is a core activity of this action in order to achieve its 
objectives. Consequently, the EUR 60 000 threshold laid down in 
Article 207 of Financial Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2024/2509 does not 
apply. The maximum amount of FSTP that may be awarded to any 
single third party is set at EUR 10 million353. This ceiling is justified by 
 
the fact that FSTP is a primary activity of this action, by its expected 
duration of 7 –10 years (exceeding a standard project lifespan), and by 
the extensive experience gained under predecessor partnerships. 
Total indicative 
budget 
The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 60 million committed in 
annual instalments over years 2026 -2027 (EUR 23 million from the 
2026 budget and EUR 37 million from the 2027 budget). The total 
indicative budget for the duration of the partnership is EUR 90 million.  
 
Expected Outcome: The successful proposal is expected to further contribute to the expected 
outcomes specified in topic HORIZON -CL6-2024-GOVERNANCE-02-01: European 
Partnership of Agriculture of Data, for continuation of the activities in line with already 
agreed outcomes.  
Scope: The objective of this action is to continue to provide support to the European 
partnership of Agriculture of Data identified in the Horizon Europe Strategic Plan 2021 -2024 
and first implemented under the topic HORIZON -CL6-2024-GOVERNANCE-02-01: 
European Partnership of Agriculture of Data, and in particular to fund additional activities 
(which may also be undertaken by additional partners) in view of its intended scope and 
duration, and in accordance with Article 24(2) of the Horizon Europe Regulation. 
The consortium which applied to and received funding under HORIZON -CL6-2024-
GOVERNANCE-02-01: European Partnership of Agriculture of Data is uniquely placed to 
submit a proposal to continue the envisioned partnership. Not only did this consortium submit 
the proposal leading to the identification of the partnership in the Horizon Europe strategic 
planning 2021-2024, it has also been implementing the partnership through a co -funded call 
launched in year 2024 and a number of internal activities, including research projects, based 
on this planning and further to topic HORIZON -CL6-2024-GOVERNANCE-02-01. In this 
context, the current consortium has unique expertise in relation to the objectives of the 
partnership, the activities to be implemented in particular through financial support to third 
parties and internal activities clearly required/envisioned pursuant to the initial 
proposal/partnership. In practice, another consortium could not continue the activities of the 
partnership underway without significant disruption to the ongoing activities, if at all. 
The partnership should seek to include additional partners, in particular from Member States 
and Associated countries not yet in the consortium funded under HORIZON -CL6-2024-
GOVERNANCE-02-01. 
While the award of a grant to continue the Partnership in accordance with this call should be 
based on a proposal submitted by the coordinator of the consortium funded under HORIZON -
CL6-2024-GOVERNANCE-02-01 and the additional activities (which may include additional 
partners) to be funded by the grant should be subject to an evaluation, this evaluation should 
take into account the existing context and the scope of the initial evaluation as relevant, and 
 
related obligations enshrined in the grant agreement. Taking into account that the present 
action is a continuation of the existing topic and foresees an amendment to an existing grant 
agreement, the proposal should present additional activities (including additional partners) to 
be covered by the award primarily in terms of grant agreement revisions. 
The proposal submitted to this call should align with the partnership’s co -created strategic 
research and innovation agenda. Through its activities, the partnership should deliver and give 
rise to ready -to-use tools, solutions and innovations, seek uptake of results by 
farmers/agricultural producers, advisors, policy -makers, public administrations and all 
relevant stakeholders, and provide science -based policy advisory activities. The proposal 
should focus on additional priority activities and when duly justified, on continuation of on -
going activities. 
The partnership should create an “umbrella effect” through taking stock, linking and, 
assessing Research and Innovation (R&I) initiatives and use cases. It should leverage on 
nationally funded research activities to create critical mass and synergies across borders and 
also support defragmentation of the European data landscape. It should also pool the 
necessary financial resources from the participating national (or regional) research 
programmes with a view to organising and implementing joint calls for transnational 
proposals resulting in grants to third parties, for which it should factor ample time to run and 
report on the co-funded projects. 
Proposals are encouraged to consider, where relevant, the data, expertise and services offered 
by European research infrastructures 354in the environment, food and digital domains. 
Specific additional activities to enhance the partnership’s collaborations at international level, 
should also be described.