HORIZON-CL6-2027-02-FARM2FORK-07: Towards commercialization of food 
systems microbiome solutions 
Call: Call 02 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
7.00 and 8.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 15.50 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility conditions The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: the proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start from TRL 5 in order to achieve TRL 7-
8 by the end of the project – see General Annex B. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes: 
• identified barriers and opportunities for scaling up innovative products and technologies 
that leverage and/or support the microbiome for resilient, competitive and sustainable 
organic, circular and conventional food systems, contributing where relevant to 
biodiversity, climate and environmental sustainability; 
• improved in-situ testing of innovative microbiome solutions related to organic and 
conventional food systems to promote their access on the EU market.  
Scope: Microbiome solutions demonstrated high potential to support our food systems, 
making them more resilient, more productive and more environmental -friendly, for instance 
by boosting crop yields, improving food safety, supporting biodiversity and leveraging its 
benefits or decreasing fertilizers use or pesticide needs. However, bringing these solutions to 
the market face several challenges, for instance the lack of business models for widespread 
deployment, or consistently producing at scale effective microbiome solutions. The topic is 
relevant to the EU policies related to the Commission communication on: Building the future 
with nature: Boosting Biotechnology and Biomanufacturing in the EU, the new EU 
bioeconomy strategy, the Life Sciences Strategy, the EU biodiversity strategy for 2030, the 
Zero Pollution Action Plan, the R&I Food 2030 Framework, the Clean Industrial Deal, and 
the policies on digital transition (e.g. AI Act, etc). 
Proposals should address all the following activities: 
• promote the access to the EU market of innovative microbiome solutions (technologies 
or products leveraging and/or supporting microbial communities and their interaction 
with their host and/or environment) that are tackling challenges in sectors supporting 
resilient, competitive, climate-, environmental-friendly and sustainable food systems; 
• develop technologies, standards and/or methodologies enabling cost -effective and 
reliable production and deployment at scale of microbiome solutions; 
• provide business models for companies, SMEs and start -ups to facilitate the successful 
deployment and commercialization of microbiome solutions for the EU market.  
Projects selected must follow the multi -actor approach. Actors involved may be researchers, 
advisors, food and bioeconomy business, startups and SMEs. Proposals should ensure an 
early engagement of researchers, businesses (including SMEs and startups), public authorities 
and policy makers, and consumers associations to co -develop, test, validate and adopt the 
solutions.