HORIZON-CL6-2027-01-CIRCBIO-08: Biotechnology application for CCU 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -7 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 267. 
 
Expected Outcome: Successful proposals under this topic should contribute to the objectives 
of the EU Carbon Removals and Carbon Farming Certification (CRCF) Regulation and the 
Clean Industrial Deal, allowing industrial operators to use a sustainable carbon source as 
feedstock. They should facilitate innovators to scale up promising solutions in scope of the 
Strategy for European Life Sciences and the Biotech Act, also supporting the implementation 
of the EU Startup and Scaleup Strategy as well as the EU strategy on research and technology 
infrastructure. 
Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• innovative and improved purification and conversion of gaseous carbon is developed and 
scaled up to provide feedstock for industrial processes promoting circularity and climate 
neutrality; 
• advanced industries – applying life sciences technologies and biotechnology - contribute 
to the climate-neutrality objective.  
Scope: Increasing industrial productivity and competitiveness should not entail unsustainable 
exploitation of resources. This makes the sustainable sourcing of non -virgin-fossil carbon 
(i.e., carbon from sustainable sourced biomass, gaseous carbon, waste) essential for European 
industries, especially considering the production of chemicals and materials. 
Proposals should address the following activities: 
• review the up-to-date progress of R&I in the use of life sciences -based technologies for 
Carbon Capture and Use (CCU) phases taking into account the capture of gaseous 
carbon - from any industrial emission and the atmosphere – and its purification and 
conversion into products. Provide an assessment of their technological readiness, 
strengths and weaknesses and their potential of carbon storage in products; 
 
• develop and test innovative and effective life sciences -based technologies, either 
synthetic biology and/or living microorganisms, to concentrate, purify and convert 
gaseous carbon efficiently into suitable feedstock to produce products. Products in scope 
exclude food/feed and biofuels/syngas; 
• perform a preliminary assessment of the environmental impacts, the social and economic 
viability and business case of the developed technologies, including their scalability and 
the identification of markets for their output bio-based products; 
• demonstrate one or more technology(ies) among those developed and tested, with the 
highest environmental, economic and social sustainability; 
• evaluate and disseminate the replication potential of the demonstrated solution(s), 
including technical and economic/financial recommendations for SMEs and industrial 
operators in general; 
• assess the feasibility of establishing a spin -off to implement the results from the best 
technology(ies) demonstration.   
In the review of up -to-date progress of R&I as in the first bullet point, international 
cooperation is encouraged, as well as in the development of innovative technologies and 
evaluation of their replication potential. Synergies with activities under Cluster 5 and the 
Circular Bio-based Europe (CBE) Joint Undertaking are encouraged. 
Projects funded under this topic should collaborate, for example within the activities 
concerning the exploitation of the IP of the developed technologies and at least within the 
dissemination activities.