HORIZON-CL6-2026-01-ZEROPOLLUTION-02: Bioremediation of Ukraine’s 
ecosystems contaminated by conflicts 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
5.00 and 6.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 11.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B.  
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 283. 
 
Expected Outcome : The actions funded under this topic should support communities, land 
managers, local administrators, policy makers, and researchers to deploy solutions 
 
contributing to the goals of the EU Nature Restoration Regulation and the new EU 
bioeconomy strategy, through techniques aligned to the Strategy for European Life Sciences 
and the EU Biotech Act. 
Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• innovative biotechnology and Nature -based Solutions (NbS) 284 are developed and made 
available to communities, land managers, local administrators and policy makers in 
Ukraine to progress towards the targets of biodiversity protection and the clean 
environment and zero-pollution ambition; 
• contribution to the reconstruction, recovery, circularity and upgrading of economy and 
environment of Ukraine is provided through the remediation of severe ecosystems 
pollution - due to conflicts - and restoration of ecosystem services.  
Scope: The recent wars are causing severe environmental degradation across ecosystems – 
besides the disruption of human lives and dignity - with concentrations of contaminants 
affecting the quality of air, water, soil, that may be beyond the known levels. There is the 
urgent need to advance in the knowledge of such extreme conditions, and to develop or adapt 
bioremediation techniques suitable to restore the degradation of the affected environments. 
Proposals should: 
• assess the level of contamination of soils in Ukraine due to past and ongoing conflicts 
and select the areas to be remediated within the actions funded. Include 
improving/adapting testing techniques, applying Earth observations and advanced tools 
(e.g., AI and autonomous systems) when applicable, aiming at the prioritisation and 
monitoring of the areas in the scope of remediation activities; 
• develop and test innovative cost -effective biotechnology and Nature -based Solutions - 
including phytoremediation - for decontamination and bioremediation of soil pollution 
on the land and at source (including air and/or water bodies) in the conditions of 
contamination due to conflicts; 
• demonstrate the developed techniques in Ukraine in the areas selected at the first point 
and monitor the effectiveness of the activities in scope, including increased resilience of 
the remediated ecosystems to climate change; 
• evaluate potential (positive and negative) impacts on the population, especially on 
groups in vulnerable situations, and ensure transparent engagement with and information 
to stakeholders and civil society on solutions proposed; 
 
• collect and provide recommendations to policymakers and EU and international relief 
organisations, to develop any replication actions, including in the context of the possible 
EU accession process, if relevant; 
• deliver on EU international commitments and outreach, including actions directed at 
future EU enlargement and EU international partnerships contributing to the EU global 
commitments on biodiversity and climate change.  
Proposals should involve consortia formed in the spirit of the multi -actor approach, including 
land managers and administrators from Ukraine as well as researchers from local academia 
and research institutions. The participation of SMEs in consortia is encouraged. 
Proposals should make use of social sciences and humanities (SSH) to assess the impacts on 
the population. 
Proposals should collaborate with Mission Soil projects dealing with soil pollution285 and with 
the project funded under the topic HORIZON -MISS-2026-05-SOIL-03: Enabling user -
centred and open innovation initiatives to enhance soil health in Ukraine, as well as with the 
Mission Soil knowledge repository SoilWise and with the EU Soil Observatory (EUSO). 
Efforts should be made to ensure that the data produced in the context of this topic are FAIR 
(Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Re -usable) and compatible with the European Open 
Science Cloud (EOSC). 
International cooperation is strongly encouraged.