HORIZON-CL6-2026-01-CIRCBIO-08: Supporting pre -normative research for 
standardization of the bio-based products 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 8.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or 
as an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 239. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• higher and more robust industrial European competitiveness, decarbonisation and 
strategic autonomy, advancing the lead market for bio-based industry; 
• improved environmental sustainability, with positive impact on climate, pollution and 
biodiversity, via the standardization of the bio-based sector and products.  
Scope: Proposals should address the following activities: 
• aiming at overall high sustainability and environmental benefits, and considering the 
economic feasibility, for high quality of final products, select a bio -based 
sector/industry 240  to develop or improve knowledge, technology, product, process, 
service or solution related to Ecodesign applicable to the chosen sector; 
• identify specific gaps in standardization research pipeline, for bio -based products, 
followed by pre -normative R&D tasks, aiming at high socio -economic and positive 
environmental impact, allowing the development and deployment of safe and 
sustainable, circular bio -based value chains/products, with reduced pressure on 
biological resources and ecosystems, leading to the consistent improvement of their 
environmental footprint; 
• engage with relevant stakeholders from bio-based industry and standardisation bodies, as 
well as policy makers and authorities at national and European level, creating 
community of practice, aiming at transparency and inclusiveness, for subsequent market 
uptake of innovative and competitive solutions with minimised impact on the 
environment.  
The projects under this topic are relevant to the EU policies related to the European 
Commission communication on safe and sustainable by design framework, the new EU 
bioeconomy strategy and the upcoming Circular Economy Act, the Clean Industrial Deal and 
the SME Strategy, as well as the chemicals industry package and the Ecodesign for 
Sustainable Products Regulation and its working plan. It also contributes to the Start -ups and 
Scale-ups Strategy. 
 
Consider synergies with the parallel topic HORIZON-CL6-2027-01-CIRCBIO-02: Enhancing 
ecodesign and circularity of construction products. The JRC may contribute to the projects 
selected for funding with work on strategic technologies for economic security and innovative 
industrial ecosystems, particularly its activities on advanced materials for safe and sustainable 
innovation. 
Cooperation between all projects funded under this topic should also be foreseen, as a specific 
tasks, with an allocation of resources, for synergies. 
This topic requires the effective contribution of SSH disciplines and involvement of SSH 
experts in order to produce meaningful and significant effects enhancing the societal impact 
of the related research activities. International cooperation is encouraged.