HORIZON-CL6-2026-02-FARM2FORK-08: Advancing basic knowledge and 
developing tools for sustainable management of key migratory fish species 
Call: Call 02 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 7.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 14.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• improved knowledge on life history parameters of key migratory fish species, through 
basic and applied research on key aspects of biology, ecology, connectivity, 
conservation, management and exploitation; 
• better knowledge of the extent of anthropogenic impacts on key migratory fish species 
through their entire life cycle within a context of a changing climate regime; 
• enhanced capacity of national and regional authorities (and other stakeholders) to 
develop and implement effective and efficient tools for the protection, restoration and 
resource management of key migratory fish species and/or their habitats, and for the 
appropriate assessment of the effectiveness of measures put in place to allow necessary 
feedback and adaptive management.  
Scope: The world’s migratory species are in decline, and their global extinction risk is 
increasing, with a growing part of this acceleration linked to climate change and a 
deterioration of their migration routes. Migratory marine fish stocks - ranging across a wide 
size spectrum - are vital for ecosystem functioning and food security, as their long -term 
persistence depends on management approaches that balance sustainability with ecological 
resilience in a system of global change. Furthermore, diadromous fish species play a critical 
role in land-sea interactions across their ranges, providing unique financial and non -financial 
societal goods and benefits to society and nature, such as marine -derived nutrient flows to 
rivers and lands, and exceptional cultural values. Ability of these species to connect and 
utilise a variety of habitats over long distances, makes them 'umbrella' species, meaning 
conservation measures for these species benefit broader ecosystems. Protecting these species 
and sustainably managing the bio -resources they provide across national and international 
waters, and often multi -national catchments require a holistic and coordinated approach, 
integrating local attitudes, uses, knowledge, policies and conservation measures, and adapted 
to local circumstances where necessary. 
Proposals should: 
• develop methods and methodologies, where relevant at regional scale or global scale, to 
assess the effectiveness of conservation and management measures that will allow for 
adaptive management; 
• develop tools and practices to reduce anthropogenic mortality factors for these species 
and in all key lifetime aquatic habitats and to avoid fragmented non -coordinated 
management across sectors and countries; 
• generate new knowledge on the interplay between climatic and non -climatic pressures, 
particularly related to fisheries of marine species, or in relation to infrastructure 
impeding connectivity (e.g. hydropower, pumping stations, flood control) and pollution 
for the diadromous species; 
• assess the impact of emerging pressures on the migratory species of interest; 
• assess the ecosystem services and the resulting societal goods and benefits provided by 
long-ranging migrating and/or transboundary land-sea-connecting species; 
• strengthen data collection systems covering all life -history stages and successive key 
habitats of these migratory fish, to improve monitoring coordination across regions and 
• incorporate relevant stakeholders and end -users from the design phase through 
development and implementation, ensuring that outputs can be readily applied by them.  
The scope includes migratory marine and diadromous species of commercial interest, with 
particular emphasis on endangered species and endangered local populations. Where 
applicable, considerations related to farming of migratory species should be addressed. 
Proposals should involve the effective contribution of social sciences and humanities 
disciplines. Citizen science is encouraged at all stages of the research activities for this topic. 
Projects are expected to contribute to the EU Common Fisheries Policy, the European Ocean 
Pact, the Vision for Fisheries and Aquaculture with a 2040 perspective, the Marine Strategy 
Framework Directive, the Habitats Directives, the Water Framework Directive, the EU 
biodiversity strategy for 2030 and the Food 2030 policy framework, the Nature Restoration 
Regulation.