HORIZON-CL6-2026-02-COMMUNITIES-01: Boosting sustainable competitiveness in 
rural areas through innovation 
Call: Call 02 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
5.00 and 6.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 11.80 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 319. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP). The 
support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• a better understanding of sustainable competitiveness in rural areas is achieved; 
• rural communities have better access to services and sustainable business opportunities; 
 
• entrepreneurship, innovation, and skills are promoted in rural communities, particularly 
among young people, to foster sustainability, competitiveness and digital literacy across 
various sectors of the rural economy.  
Scope: The projects under this topic are relevant to the EU policies related to the long -term 
vision for EU’s rural areas, the vision for agriculture and food and its objective to foster fair 
living and working conditions in vibrant rural areas, climate objectives, as well as the 
competitiveness compass which, among its three core areas for action, aims at closing the 
innovation gap for the EU to boost its competitiveness. 
Regaining competitiveness is essential to ensuring long -term prosperity in the EU. However, 
not all territories have equal access to resources and opportunities. Efforts to enhance 
competitiveness must therefore also prioritise environmental and social sustainability ensuring 
that neither nature nor people are left behind in the pursuit of economic growth. 
Although rural areas often possess natural resources and are essential to support the provision 
of ecosystem services, they frequently face societal (e.g., declining and ageing populations, 
social exclusion and inequality) and market failures (e.g., under -provision of essential 
services, limited access to finance and infrastructure, digital divide, labour market 
mismatches) that hinder sustainable development, social inclusion, and competitiveness. 
Proposals should: 
• improve the understanding of the drivers and obstacles of sustainable competitiveness in 
the contexts of societal and market failures in rural areas, and propose indicators to 
measure competitiveness that incorporate social and environmental performance; 
• support startups and/or businesses led by young 320  rural entrepreneurs to design, 
prototype and test sustainable digital, technological, nature -based and/or social solutions 
to improve access to services and/or create business opportunities in diverse rural 
settings; in addition, propose mechanisms to share these solutions among rural areas 
through translocal networks; 
• improve access to digital and hybrid education and training for rural communities to 
acquire new skills and support entrepreneurial mind -sets, in particular among young 
people, as well as link university graduates with young rural entrepreneurs to share 
knowledge and possibly create new collaborations;  
Proposals may provide financial support to third parties in particular to support start up or 
businesses. The support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
Proposals are expected to build upon already existing results and to search collaboration with 
the other action funded under this topic and with other relevant projects funded under Horizon 
 
Europe. Proposals should include a task and appropriate resources to ensure these 
collaborations. 
Proposals should also allocate appropriate resources to coordinate their work with relevant 
initiatives developed by the Joint Research Centre (JRC), particularly in the context of the 
Rural Observatory and the Startup Village Forum initiative. 
This topic requires the effective contribution of Social Sciences and Humanities (SSH) 
disciplines (e.g., economics, business and administration, education science, gender studies) 
and the involvement of SSH experts.  
Proposals must consider gender in all aspects of project design and implementation, 
particularly in data analysis, support for start -ups and businesses, the development of 
solutions, as well as the provision of education and training opportunities.