HORIZON-CL6-2026-02-FARM2FORK-01-two-stage: Open topic: Improving the 
competitiveness of the agricultural sector by enhancing the efficient and sustainable use 
of agricultural production factors 
Call: Call 02 - two-stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
4.50 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 13.50 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Applicants submitting a proposal for a blind evaluation (see General 
Annex F) must not disclose their organisation names, acronyms, logos 
nor names of personnel in the proposal abstract and Part B of their first-
stage application (see General Annex E). 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: the proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 7 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B.  
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The first-stage proposals of this topic will be evaluated blindly. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 178. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP). 
The support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. 
The maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• the EU strategic autonomy and the long -term sustainability of EU farming systems are 
safeguarded; 
• farmers benefit from new knowledge, innovations and practices to make the green 
transition towards sustainable and biodiversity friendly agriculture.  
 
Scope: EU farmers face numerous competitiveness challenges. According to a study by the 
EP179, the growth of total factor productivity (TFP) in EU agriculture has been slowing down 
while some of our competitors, like Brazil, Canada and China, show higher TFP growth. In 
order to revert this trend, improving the efficiency of the production factors is a possible 
avenue, while at the same time considering its sustainable use. Proposals should address all 
the following activities: 
• develop prototypes of innovations and farming practices that can improve the efficient 
and sustainable use of agricultural production factors 180  or provide sustainable 
alternatives, and test them in a large-scale operational environment; 
• provide cost-effective and sustainable business models of these innovations or farming 
practices, and assess their environmental (including biodiversity restoration 181), social 
and economic impacts to facilitate the deployment and the commercialisation on the 
European market; 
• identify possible barriers and enablers for the adoption, the upscaling or large -scale 
deployment of these innovations and propose solutions; 
• propose a clear strategy to communicate, disseminate and exploit results, new farming 
practices, innovations and best practices, and to foresee training to the relevant actors.  
Proposals may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP) to, for instance, test, develop 
or demonstrate the innovations or prototypes. 
Proposals must implement the multi -actor approach including farmers, advisors, researchers, 
social scientists, SMEs and start-ups in order to leverage opportunities for innovations to scale 
up and access relevant markets. 
Proposals are encouraged to build on the results of relevant projects funded under Horizon 
2020 and Horizon Europe and ensure collaboration with relevant ongoing projects. 
This topic should involve the effective contribution of SSH disciplines and SSH experts, 
especially in the field of behavioural sciences and adoption/uptake of technologies and 
practices. 
The projects under this topic are relevant to the EU policies related to the Common 
Agricultural Policy and align with the EU Vision for Agriculture and Food. 
 
