HORIZON-CL6-2026-01-ZEROPOLLUTION-03: Developing managed aquifer 
recharge techniques (MAR) in a rural context 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: The proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
 
approach in this work programme part. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 286. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• farmers have access to water supply from managed aquifer recharge systems and to 
appropriate business models to cope with longer and more intense periods of water 
scarcity due to climate change, while preserving the good status of ground water bodies; 
• water ecosystems are healthier and more resilient to climate change, and water related 
ecosystem services are protected and strengthened, while water resilience of farming 
systems is increased; 
• policy makers are provided with improved insights on mechanisms and instruments to 
improve the water resilience of the agricultural sector to cope with climate change 
effects.  
Scope: Droughts in the EU are increasing in frequency, magnitude and impact, and the 
affected area is expanding. Water storage systems can limit abstractions from surface waters 
and groundwater reducing the environmental footprint of agriculture and food systems, and 
bring the demand and supply of water better in balance, strengthening the resilience of EU 
agriculture. 
Proposals should: 
• extend, improve and customize managed aquifer recharge (MAR) techniques at farm, 
basin and catchment level, covering most representative EU agricultural contexts in view 
of climate change; 
 
• develop a methodology to help assessing the most suitable location or situations to 
implement these MAR techniques and validate with a representative sample of case -
study regions, taking into account for the differential impact of climate change; 
• develop a user -friendly monitoring, reporting and verification system (MRV) to follow 
the impact on ground water quality and quantity, as well as associated water ecosystems 
and dependent terrestrial ecosystems; 
• evaluate the potential impact and sustainability of managed aquifer recharge techniques 
in rural areas, including on the groundwater ecosystems, associated water ecosystems 
and dependent terrestrial ecosystems, and drinking water from a multi -objective 
approach, and its integration with evidence -based engineered and Nature -based 
Solutions to reduce runoff, soil erosion and improve landscape climatic resilience; 
• calculate the cost-benefits of MAR techniques and propose different business models for 
the compensation or remuneration of individual farmers or land managers (payments 
schemes, nature, carbon or water credits, …) for hosting MAR initiatives; 
• demonstrate the feasibility of these business models at local level (catchment, river 
basin, ...) by at least 2 case studies in different pedoclimatic zones and evaluate the 
possible barriers for adoption by farmers or land managers; 
• provide a framework of governance models that could fit the different local socio -
economic, regulatory and pedo-climatic conditions.  
The actions funded under this topic are relevant to the EU policies related to the EU Vision 
for Agriculture and Food, as well as to the European Water Resilience Strategy and the EU 
Climate Adaptation Strategy. 
Proposals must implement the multi -actor approach and ensure adequate involvement of 
relevant stakeholders, including farmers, land managers, water governance bodies and local 
authorities. 
Proposals are encouraged to build on the results of relevant projects funded under Horizon 
2020 and Horizon Europe and ensure collaboration with relevant ongoing and forthcoming 
projects from the Mission Soil and the Mission Ocean & Waters. 
Proposals should follow the Guidance document on managed aquifer recharge techniques of 
the CIS Working Group on Groundwater 287. 
 
