HORIZON-CL6-2026-03-GOVERNANCE-08: Boosting data availability and AI 
solutions in food for consumers and food service professionals 
Call: Call 03 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 7.50 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 15.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: The proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 340. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
 
• generative AI solutions for consumers and food service professionals have significantly 
scaled-up and improved the productivity and sustainability (including for mitigation of 
climate change) of food purchasing, preservation and preparation, and enabled dietary 
health; 
• high value and high quality digital datasets for food products, and data driven consumer 
and food service applications are developed and contribute to increasing productivity, 
sustainability and dietary health; 
• data sovereignty is ensured, including for consumers and farmers.  
Scope: The decisions taken by consumers and food service professionals when they purchase, 
prepare and preserve food impact their productivity as well as the sustainability of food 
systems, and dietary health. AI solutions offer opportunities to assist consumers and food 
service professionals in these decisions. To maximise the impact of these AI solutions it is 
necessary to increase their uptake as well as the availability and quality of the data on which 
they rely. 
Proposals should: 
• develop and deploy human -centric, generative AI solutions for consumers and food 
service professionals to support them in the processes of food purchasing, preservation 
and preparation, with a view to increase dietary health, sustainability (lower greenhouse 
gas emissions, energy & water footprint; lower food waste, and packaging waste) and 
productivity. 
• support innovators working on generative AI solutions in food. The support should 
include: Encourage participation of SMEs and start -ups, such as through high -impact 
innovation platforms (e.g. EU Digital Innovation Hubs, accelerators, incubators). Offer 
innovation support packages that are tailored to innovative SMEs and start -ups and that 
are effective in bringing solutions to market. Prioritize support based on end-users needs, 
data availability and the likely impact potential on dietary health, sustainability and 
productivity when solutions are scaled -up, including for reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions; 
• engage with a broad range of stakeholders (e.g. consumers, retailers, caterers, equipment 
manufacturers) to ensure that the solutions developed are practical and widely adopted. 
Include plans for providing training and ongoing support to end users to maximize the 
effective and significant use of the AI solutions; 
• advance the access to trustworthy digital product data in food. Improve the availability, 
sovereignty and quality of data sets that are high value in view of end -users needs, and 
the likely impact potential on dietary health, sustainability and productivity when 
solutions are scaled-up, including for reducing greenhouse gas emissions; 
• encourage businesses and other relevant actors (e.g. public authorities, certification 
bodies) in the food system to enhance data capture, optimize data sharing, and promote 
data reuse; 
• ensure that sufficient and good quality data is mobilised from different relevant data 
sources (e.g. in-situ data, model data, sensor data, device data, remote sensing, personal 
data, government data) across the computing continuum, and from different parts of the 
food system, from primary production, over food processing to consumption and 
disposal.  
Where appropriate, proposals should use, federate, optimise and complete tools, capacities 
and infrastructures created under the Digital Europe Program (incl. European Data Spaces, 
EDIHs) and under Horizon Europe projects and partnerships (incl. Partnerships Agriculture of 
Data & FutureFoods). Proposals are encouraged to building on results from previous and 
relevant calls and projects. Proposals should also comply with existing EU framework and 
strategies and building upon the concepts and solutions developed in other Union initiatives 
aimed to facilitate data sharing, such as the Common European Agricultural Data Space 
(CEADS). 
Proposals must implement the 'multi -actor approach’ and ensure adequate involvement of the 
main stakeholders of food systems and the data economy. This topic should involve the 
effective contribution of Social Sciences and Humanities (SSH) disciplines.