HORIZON-CL6-2027-02-FARM2FORK-09: African Union – European Union 
Partnership on Food and Nutrition Security and Sustainable Agriculture (FNSSA) 
Call: Call 02 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.75 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 6.75 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or 
as an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Due to the scope of this topic, legal entities established in all African 
Union member states* are exceptionally eligible for Union funding. * 
"African Union member states" includes countries whose membership 
has been temporarily suspended. 
International organisations with headquarters in a Member State or 
Associated Country are exceptionally eligible for funding. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: due to the specific 
challenge of this topic, in addition to the minimum number of 
participants set out in the General Annexes, consortia must include at 
least three independent legal entities established in an African Union 
member state*. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 206. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP). The 
support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
 
Expected Outcome : Project results are expected to contribute to the following expected 
outcomes: 
• the coordination of Research and Innovation Policies of AU and EU Members in the 
Working Group on FNSSA is improved; 
• improved coordination of the portfolio of projects funded under the first priority on 
FNSSA of the African Union – European Union High -level Policy Dialogue across all 
funding instruments of the EU and the AU and its members, in particular the EU 
Research Framework Programme, Co-funding instruments, the DeSIRA programme and 
others.  
 
Scope: Proposals should: 
• implement the AU-EU roadmap by strengthening the strategic functioning and capacities 
of the FNSSA Working Group. Develop a toolkit of measures and provide robust 
scientific support, as well as practical administrative help, to enable a better -structured 
organisation; 
• operationalise the International Research Consortium (IRC) as a platform to implement 
the roadmap on food and nutrition security and sustainable agriculture (FNSSA) by 
improving the learning environment, including communication channels, to support 
multi stakeholder networks and to strengthen R&I coordination and funding also by the 
use of Financial Support to Third Parties as well as by the use of cascading funding; 
• provide a platform for funders and seed funding to further develop and/or scale -up 
technical and social innovations created by a previous HLPD -FNSSA207 projects. These 
projects must have been funded in support of the EU -AU FNSSA roadmap 2016 -2026 
and funded by one of the instruments of EU-AU R&I collaboration, they include African 
Union Research Grants, ERA -Nets (Leap-Agri, FOSC), Horizon 2020, Horizon Europe 
and DeSira; 
• complement other potential scale -up instruments of the EU Global Gateway Strategy 
such as the AU -EU Innovation Agenda and the EU International Partnerships such as 
DeSIRA+; 
• promote start-ups and other innovative SMEs by providing a space for mentoring and 
accelerating innovative business concepts, including social innovation and upscaling in 
view of African or European food business entrepreneurs with special consideration of 
women, young entrepreneurs and the diaspora using cascading funding opportunities.  
Proposals may involve financial support to third parties e.g. to academic researchers, start -
ups, SMEs and other multidisciplinary actors, to, for instance, develop, test or validate 
approaches. 
Proposals are encouraged to work together with the Joint Research Centre via the European 
Commission’s Knowledge Centre on Global Food and Nutrition Security to leverage its 
knowledge base on relevant topics and to expand the reach and dissemination of FNSSA 
activities.