HORIZON-CL6-2026-01-CIRCBIO-11: Harnessing the unique properties of marine 
organisms to deliver sustainable blue bio-based products 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 5.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 10.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 245. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• increased support on green bioprocessing, safe and sustainable blue bio-based products; 
 
• increased understanding of safety, effectiveness and regulatory bottlenecks of blue bio -
based products; 
• increased commitment to biodiversity preservation and conservation ensuring that the 
biodiscovery of new compounds does not lead to unsustainable harvesting from the wild 
and promoting sustainable use of genetic diversity.  
Scope: The European industry must transition to a greener, more sustainable model to 
enhance its competitiveness against other business models and foster the production of novel 
high-value sustainable products. Achieving this requires a shift towards a bio -based system, 
which leverages biological processes to deliver products that contribute to climate change 
mitigation by reducing environmental impact and can compete with and eventually replace 
traditional models. For instance, the current use of hazardous chemicals in various industries, 
such as the textile and polymer industries, requires the development of more sustainable and 
environmentally friendly alternatives. 
In this context, the vast and largely untapped diversity of marine organisms —including fungi, 
algae, and invertebrates —presents a valuable source of biomolecules with unique properties. 
These marine-derived compounds hold significant potential across a range of applications, for 
example from construction materials, chemical processes to bioplastics and textiles. 
Supporting research and innovation in blue biotechnology fosters the transition toward 
greener, high-performance products across multiple industries. 
Proposals should address the following: 
• develop safe and sustainable blue bio -based products, by exploring the use of the unique 
physical, chemical and biochemical properties of biomolecules from marine organisms 
(e.g., adhesion, structural organization, fluorescence, luminescence). Proposals in scope 
include novel adhesion agents or bonding products, biochemicals to replace hazardous 
chemicals, antifouling paintings and coatings, replacement for synthetic surfactants, 
biomarkers, biosensors, enzymes. Proposals aiming to develop molecules with important 
economic or societal impact are encouraged. The applications in health biotechnology, 
as well as the biofuel/bioenergy area are excluded, to avoid overlaps with Horizon 
Europe Clusters 1 and 5, respectively; 
• incorporate the use of synthetic and engineering biology approaches and foresee the 
necessary links with the digital technologies and tools (AI/ML, bioinformatics); 
• include the assessment of the costs and benefits compared to conventional alternatives in 
the market. Proposals should look into regulatory, market and value chain bottlenecks;  
• assess the safety, environmental sustainability and effectiveness of the developed bio -
based products derived from marine environments compared to the equivalent material 
on the market; 
• develop recommendations for policy makers and industrial actors, considering the 
available scientifically sound assessment of risks and benefits of the developed solutions.  
Proposals should cover the innovation chain from research, to development, and proof of 
concept. Legal aspects linked to securing clear access to marine resources, including related 
infrastructures and bio-resources banks and collections, their sustainable use as well as access 
and benefit sharing aspects, should be properly considered. Marine resources can be obtained 
sustainably from natural environments, as well as from publicly or privately accessible 
collections. The harvesting or utilization of sentient marine animals, including invertebrates, 
must be carefully evaluated to ensure that ethical and moral considerations are adequately 
addressed. 
Proposals are encouraged to consider, where relevant, the data, expertise and services offered 
by European research infrastructures 246, such as EMSO ERIC, EU -OPENSCREEN, ELIXIR, 
EMBRC ERIC, IBISBA. Efforts should be made to ensure that the data produced in the 
context of this topic is FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Re -usable). Proposals 
should ensure adequate involvement of all relevant stakeholders to maximize the impact and 
use of the developed products, including but not limited to economic and financial actors. 
International cooperation, for example with Latin America and Caribbean countries, is 
encouraged. 
Proposals are expected to establish synergies and links with relevant projects funded under the 
Horizon Europe CL6 Work Programmes 2021 -2025247 and with actions supported by the 
Circular Bio-based Europe Joint Undertaking (CBE JU) and the Sustainable Blue Partnership 
(SBEP) ensuring that any potential overlaps or duplications are avoided. 
Projects under this topic are relevant to the EU policies related to the new EU bioeconomy 
strategy, the European Life Sciences Strategy, the EU Biotech Act, the EU Algae Initiative, 
the European Ocean Pact, the EU strategy on research and technology infrastructures, and the 
new approach for a sustainable blue economy.