HORIZON-CL6-2026-01-BIODIV-03-two-stage: Unlocking the potential of citizen 
action for nature protection and restoration 
Call: Call 01 - two stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
5.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 10.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Applicants submitting a proposal for a blind evaluation (see General 
Annex F) must not disclose their organisation names, acronyms, logos 
nor names of personnel in the proposal abstract and Part B of their first-
stage application (see General Annex E). 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The first-stage proposals of this topic will be evaluated blindly. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 108. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• citizen engagement in nature conservation and restoration is leveraged; 
 
• new business opportunities and markets in the area of nature conservation and 
restoration are created, thus supporting the EU objectives of nature restoration for 
climate mitigation and adaptation.  
Scope: The EU biodiversity strategy for 2030 acknowledges that protecting and restoring 
nature will need more than regulation alone and will notably require action by citizens. This 
topic intends to support citizens willing to take directly part in nature protection and 
restoration. It is expected to contribute to the implementation of the Kunming -Montreal 
Global Biodiversity Framework and in particular to its target 21. A wide range of ecosystem 
types (in terrestrial environment, in fresh and/or marine water) can be considered. 
Successful proposals are expected to: 
• explore innovative approaches that could apply to nature conservation and restoration 
activities; 
• develop and test new ways to restore and conserve nature that can be directly 
implemented by citizens at small scale. Activities are expected to go beyond monitoring, 
without totally excluding monitoring activities if they are needed to support innovations; 
• engage with diverse local communities and/or indigenous people and consider gender 
and disability -sensitive and inclusive approaches to ensure equal participation and 
benefits for all; 
• assess the possible contribution of citizens to overall biodiversity objectives and design 
and test social incentives that encourage citizens to take an active role in nature 
conservation and restoration.  
Proposals should address some of the following activities: 
• Development, testing and marketing of citizen toolkits for species conservation, with the 
following scope:         
 animal species across various taxonomic groups, including pollinating and not 
pollinating insects;    
 protected species or species threatened with extinction according to the European 
Red List109;    
 species suitable for direct citizen conservation action and with feasible breeding 
programmes.   
Where necessary, the toolkit should include material for the creation of a habitat required by 
targeted species, such as seed material. 
 
• Pest control or management of invasive species by citizens, in particular to prevent 
possible negative impacts on habitats and/or species. 
• Social innovation leading to new services or products for nature restoration by citizens.  
This topic should actively engage citizens and support bottom -up and participatory 
approaches. It is particularly relevant for SMEs, for instance for the development of kits or 
digital tools. 
This topic requires the effective contribution of SSH disciplines (e.g. gender and 
intersectional expertise, education and behavioural sciences) and the involvement of SSH 
experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce 
meaningful and significant effects enhancing the societal impact of the related research 
activities. 
Proposals should foresee appropriate resources to ensure close cooperation with the EC 
Knowledge Centre for Biodiversity (KCBD) and its Science Service. Moreover, synergies 
with activities under New European Bauhaus are encouraged.