HORIZON-CL6-2027-01-ZEROPOLLUTION-01: Replacing hazardous substances in 
biocidal products 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 288. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties. The support 
to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute driving the innovation of public 
authorities and industrial operators confronted with the Biocidal products regulation (EC) No 
528/2012, within the 'safe and sustainable by design' framework. The outcomes should 
support the goals of the Commission communication on: Building the future with nature: 
Boosting Biotechnology and Biomanufacturing in the EU, of the EU Startup and Scaleup 
Strategy, of the Strategy for European Life Sciences and of the new EU bioeconomy strategy. 
Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• innovation in bio -based and natural substances brings safer alternatives to hazardous 
substances contained in biocidal products, with decreased risk on human health and 
biodiversity, including pollinators; 
• safe, sustainable and effective solutions are developed and tested for the control of 
harmful organisms affecting human or animal health or the environment.  
 
Scope: Despite being needed for the control of pests or harmful organisms, some of the 
biocidal active substances currently approved are problematic for human or animal health or 
the environment. More innovation to bring safer alternatives into the market is therefore 
essential, allowing for further restriction or ban to the use of the most hazardous biocidal 
active substances. 
Proposals should: 
• develop innovative and Safe and Sustainable by Design (SSbD 289) bio-based substances 
to effectively replace hazardous active substances used in biocidal products covered by 
Biocidal products regulation 290  and, specifically, at least in one of the following 
applications as listed below:      
 hazardous active substances used in wood preservatives biocidal products. 
Developed solutions/substances should aim to limit the development of resistance 
or cross -resistance to harmful organisms, such as Aspergillus species , and in 
particular Aspergillus fumigatus;    
 hazardous active substances used in insecticides biocidal products to control 
mosquitos. Developed solutions/substances should be sufficiently effective to 
control larvae or adults of mosquitoes responsible for diseases transmitted to 
humans or animals;    
 the developed substances can include active substances derived from plants, 
microbes and other natural sources, and bio-based substances;   
• include a review at international level of the hazardous active substances in the scope 
(wood preservatives and insecticides to control mosquitos); 
• test the solutions/substances developed and assess their safety for human health, 
terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity, including pollinators; 
• validate their contribution to biodiversity enhancement, when applicable; 
• demonstrate their effectiveness in replacing the hazardous substances through scientific 
validated indicators, including their integration into final products, also in terms of cost -
effectiveness.  
Projects should include social sciences and humanities (SSH) in testing the safety of the 
developed substances on humans, especially including the analysis of groups in vulnerable 
situations, and the diversity in terms of sex, disability, age, race or ethnicity, religion or belief, 
gender, etc. 
 
International cooperation is encouraged, for the review of substances in scope. 
Participation of SMEs in the consortium is encouraged.