HORIZON-CL6-2026-01-BIODIV-04: Ensuring continuous effectiveness of protected 
areas in conserving habitats and species while facing intensifying drivers of biodiversity 
loss 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.50 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 13.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced portfolio, grants will be awarded to applications 
not only in order of ranking but at least also to one proposal within the 
research field A that is the highest ranked, and one proposal highest 
ranked within the research field B, provided that the applications attain 
all thresholds. Proposals shall clearly indicate the research field they are 
applying to. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 95. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes: 
• the effectiveness of the protection of habitats and species in protected areas is 
maintained even under intensifying impacts of the drivers of biodiversity loss, including 
climate change, thanks to an improved understanding of how they affect the 
conservation status of the protected habitats and species, for the benefit of society; 
• managers of protected areas are able to anticipate the future impacts of drivers of 
biodiversity loss and can take better informed decisions for the protection of terrestrial, 
freshwater and/or marine habitats and species.  
Scope: Protected areas are key to ensure the conservation of species and habitats. However, 
the intensification of the main drivers of biodiversity loss is raising questions on how their 
effectiveness will be maintained in the future. 
This topic is expected to support the EU commitment to legally protect a minimum of 30% of 
the EU’s land area and a minimum of 30% of the EU’s sea area of the EU biodiversity 
strategy for 2030 (target 1) and the related legislation, and the corresponding target of the 
Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework (target 3). Knowledge generated under 
this topic is also expected to inform deliberations on EU biodiversity policy after 2030 and the 
design and implementation of climate policies. Proposals should seek to address some 
knowledge gaps identified by the relevant IPBES assessments and if appropriate provide 
recommendations to policy makers. 
Proposals should: 
• analyse trends over time of the effects of drivers of biodiversity loss and their possible 
cumulative impacts. Direct drivers (changing use of sea and land, direct exploitation of 
organisms, climate change, pollution and invasive alien species) and indirect drivers 
should be considered, including socio-economic related ones; 
• develop predictive tools to anticipate how the intensity of impacts will develop in the 
medium and long terms, taking into account relevant possible cumulative impacts; 
• assess expected future impacts on the conservation status of protected habitats and 
species in protected areas; 
• assess whether novel adaptive approaches for protection are needed and if so, explore 
options, possibly building on results of relevant LIFE projects and on the experience of 
 
climate refugia (areas where ecosystems sustain stability and resilience despite climate 
change) and of bright spots (where targeted conservation actions, climate adaptation 
strategies, or natural resilience mechanisms mitigate biodiversity loss). Assess the 
opportunity to rely on (new) practices such as assisted migration; 
• define best practices and test innovative management approaches of protected areas, with 
performance indicators. To assess the effectiveness of management approaches, projects 
should build on methods and indicators developed under LIFE PAME Europe 96 . 
Proposals should address various types of protected areas and assess how the results 
might be transposable; 
• consider the need for long -term ecological monitoring of protected habitats and species, 
provide recommendations and consider possible options for such long-term monitoring; 
• involve public authorities and/or entities which manage protected areas, and civil society 
organisations to ensure that the processes and outcomes of the R&I align with the needs, 
including for policy implementation, and values and expectations of society.  
Proposals should address research field A: terrestrial biodiversity and ecosystems or research 
field B: marine biodiversity and ecosystems. Both research fields may include freshwater 
ecosystems. The research field (A or B) should be clearly indicated on the application. 
This topic requires the effective contribution of SSH disciplines and the involvement of SSH 
experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce 
meaningful and significant effects enhancing the societal impact of the related research 
activities. 
Proposals should foresee appropriate resources to ensure close cooperation with the EC 
Knowledge Centre for Biodiversity (KCBD) and its Science Service, and ensure cooperation 
with the European partnership Biodiversa+. 
Proposals are encouraged to consider, where relevant, the data, expertise and services offered 
by European research infrastructures97 in the environment domain. 
International cooperation is encouraged especially when protected areas expand over different 
countries and for exchange of experiences.