HORIZON-CL6-2027-01-CIRCBIO-06: Towards a Europe of Bioeconomy Places 
Call: Call 01 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: The proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 5 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL.  
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 262. 
 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• improved attractiveness of places through a systemic transition to “Bioeconomy 
Places”263, leading to increased investment in the bio -based sectors, job creation and 
overall well-being of the population, while reducing environmental and climate impacts 
and promoting sustainable development; 
• sustainable and qualified Bioeconomy Places based on environmental, social and 
economic indicators, including awareness and skills development, capacity building, 
food systems sustainability, and contribution to climate action and biodiversity goals, are 
developed, allowing for comparison (in terms of the elements outlined in this paragraph) 
and knowledge-sharing between different bioeconomy places.  
Scope: The local character of biomass and other biological resources and the high number of 
micro-companies and SMEs involved in sectors that deal with biological resources explain 
why research and innovations are best developed in line with the local and regional context. 
“Places” (geographical defined areas as defined in the previous footnote) play an important 
role in the transition to a sustainable and circular EU bioeconomy and have proven to act as a 
good platform for matching EU top -level policies and best practices with bottom -up 
entrepreneurship and innovation that is mobilised to meet an ambition and vision for the 
bioeconomy. Bioeconomy places are expected to lead the transition to a sustainable and 
circular bioeconomy by building their capacity to develop and deploy innovative bioeconomy 
solutions within a clearly defined local/regional governance framework and vision that is 
aligned to EU priorities and policies. 
Proposals should: 
• develop definitions of and benchmarks that can allow to qualify a “Place” as 
“Bioeconomy Place” (i.e. a label to be awarded to “Places” that meet the definitions and 
benchmarks developed as part of the project), linked to and built upon the groundwork 
laid by the Regional Innovation Valleys (RIVs) for Bioeconomy and Food Systems , the 
Circular Cities and Regions Initiative (CCRI)264 and other relevant projects. They should 
relate to the ability of the place to fulfil environmental (including biodiversity), social 
and economic sustainability criteria using bioeconomy solutions (e.g. including Nature -
based Solutions), with particular attention to the sustainability of sourced biomass, 
 
climate mitigation, biodiversity protection circularity, food systems, social fairness and 
competitiveness. 
• set up at least three “Bioeconomy Place” pilot sites, which are expected to be located in 
at least three different EU Member States/Associated Countries. At least one of the pilot 
sites should be located fully or partially in Ukraine. In these sites, proposals should:         
 carry out an analysis on needs, strengths and opportunities that should include but 
is not limited to infrastructure (analysing physical and digital conditions for 
bioeconomy industrial clusters to be established), value chains (e.g. biomass 
sourcing mapping and industrial capacity mapping, with particular attention to 
SMEs and start -ups), consumer and civil society needs and awareness, skill 
readiness and    
 devise, for each pilot site, a plan with commitments to transform the “Place” into a 
“Bioeconomy Place”, based on the analysis and benchmarks developed. These 
plans should:          
− foster multi-stakeholder partnerships with local actors, taking into account a 
gender-sensitive and inclusive approach and the specific needs of groups in 
vulnerable situations;    
− establish synergies between urban, rural (where relevant, coastal) areas to 
optimise resource flows and promote the creation of new business models, 
value chains and jobs;    
− develop training programmes that enhance technical and entrepreneurial skills, 
including biotechnology and digital skills relevant to the bioeconomy;    
− provide capacity-building for bioeconomy stakeholders on access to funding 
and capital and on how to prepare bankable projects and attract private capital; 
and    
− provide policy recommendations on how to progress in the deployment of 
bioeconomy solutions ensuring circularity.   
Proposals must implement the multi -actor approach, involving educational and employment 
institutions, industrial actors, unions and local and regional authorities in order to co -create 
the knowledge and adapted solutions to foster the establishment of Bioeconomy Places across 
Europe. Collaboration among all the pilot sites set up under the projects of this topic should 
be fostered. Proposals are encouraged to incorporate and advance the knowledge and findings 
from previously funded EU projects265 and work with projects from topics under this WP. All 
projects under this topic need to closely collaborate. 
 
HORIZON-CL6-2023-CIRCBIO-01-7, HORIZON -CL6-2023-CIRCBIO-01-10 and H2020_RUR -09-
2018. 
