HORIZON-CL6-2026-03-GOVERNANCE-09: Increasing knowledge flows to practice 
within AKIS via EU thematic knowledge hubs  
Call: Call 03 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 3.50 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 7.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: The proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced portfolio, grants will be awarded to applications 
not only in order of ranking but at least to one application highest 
ranked within each area, A and B, provided that the applications attain 
all thresholds. Proposals shall clearly indicate the area they are applying 
to. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties. The support 
to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 341. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• competitiveness, sustainability (where relevant including climate adaptation) and 
resilience of agriculture, forestry and rural areas is fostered, by providing impartial and 
tailored knowledge to advisors and end-users342 ; 
• advisors are better integrated into the Agricultural Knowledge and Innovation Systems 
(AKIS343) with up -to-date, practice -oriented knowledge that enables them to provide 
farmers with high quality impartial advice; 
• research findings, innovative solutions, practical knowledge and best practices, are well 
known, widely shared and used in practice by end-users.  
Scope: There is a growing need to disseminate practical knowledge on challenges and 
opportunities for agriculture, forestry and rural areas stemming from both scientific -research 
 
and practical experience, and to link it to relevant actors through enhanced thematic 
collaboration between researchers, advisors and farmers. 
EU thematic knowledge hubs should transform existing and new knowledge into accessible 
formats for advisors and targeted end -users, focusing on dissemination over collection. By 
blending the strengths of thematic and advisory networks, these hubs should offer services to 
widely disseminate information on specific themes among practitioners on the ground, 
contributing to a well-informed, and engaged AKIS community. Proposals should set up these 
hubs as a go -to source for valuable content, facilitating access to thematic research findings, 
innovative solutions, and best practices, empowering advisors with cutting -edge knowledge 
and providing ample opportunities of collaboration and cross -fertilization amongst the 
different AKIS actors. 
Proposals should: 
• compile a comprehensive range of up -to-date scientific and practical knowledge, best 
practices and innovative solutions within the thematic area indicated, which are effective 
and ready for use in practice, but not commonly known and/or used by the end -users. 
This objective should be achieved by primarily drawing from existing resources, while 
also remaining open to incorporating new sources as they become available; 
• develop and widely share and disseminate an extensive range of useful, applicable and 
appealing informative materials and training courses using the most effective 
approaches, formats, tools (including audio -visual) to reach end -users and advisors 
through diverse channels mostly used by practitioners. The information provided should 
be easy to access and understand, and translated into at least all 24 EU official languages 
to allow dissemination across the whole EU. Consortia should ensure collection and 
dissemination of knowledge from and to at least fourteen EU Member States, 
guaranteeing a balanced geographical coverage; 
• offer services that enhance networking, cross fertilization and knowledge exchange 
between the different AKIS actors 344, to stimulate dialogue on innovative solutions and 
initiatives, to build relations and support mutual learning across the EU; 
• actively involve advisors in knowledge hubs and mobilise relevant AKIS actors 
(including the AKIS coordination bodies) and actions at European/ national/regional 
levels to support the implementation of the knowledge and solutions in practice across 
the EU; 
• include a dedicated task and appropriate resources to collaborate with, ensure 
complementarities, avoid duplication of efforts and use efficiently the outputs and 
activities of the relevant past, existing and future AKIS projects345. 
 
• establish strong collaborations with national or regional authorities and ecosystems 
ensuring effective partnerships that support Member States in the training of advisors 
and enable them to provide practical guidance tailored to diverse contexts, including 
accessing finance; 
• develop a long -term plan to update and maintain the knowledge hub and its outputs 
beyond the project duration. Ensure that all resources are created with interoperability, 
adaptability and transferability in mind to facilitate their continued use and 
transfer/integration across diverse platforms and stakeholders.  
Proposals should either address the thematic Area A: Enhancing competitiveness of protein 
crops, or Area B: Sustainable water management under climate change. The area (A or B) 
should be clearly indicated in the proposal. Within the frame of each of the broad thematic 
area, applicants should select specific topics in a bottom -up way in order to respond to the 
most urgent need(s) from practice and explain the theme’s relevance in relation to end -users’ 
need(s), clarifying the added -value of the proposal and how it avoids duplication with the 
ongoing or completed thematic networks and projects346. 
Proposals must implement the multi -actor approach, with a balanced consortium of relevant 
actors with complementary knowledge, actively involving advisors and end -users to identify 
the most urgent practical needs and plan and execute the main tasks of the knowledge hub. 
Minimum 30% of the number of people involved in the project should be impartial advisors347 
spending at least half of their working time on giving advice to farmers. Consortium partners 
should have a wide network and be capable to involve as many professionally active advisors 
as possible across the EU into the activities of the project. To this end, proposals may involve 
financial support to third parties (FSTP) to ensure the involvement of advisors from across the 
whole EU in the activities of the advisory network. The projects under this topic are relevant 
to the EU policies related to the EU Vision for Agriculture and Food and the cross -cutting 
objective of the common agricultural policy (CAP) to enhance knowledge flows among AKIS 
actors, in particular advisory services and end-users.