HORIZON-CL6-2026-01-BIODIV-02-two-stage: Open topic: Uncovering the causes of 
specific species’ rapid decline and exploring actionable solutions 
Call: Call 01 - two stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
3.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Applicants submitting a proposal for a blind evaluation (see General 
Annex F) must not disclose their organisation names, acronyms, logos 
nor names of personnel in the proposal abstract and Part B of their first-
stage application (see General Annex E). 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The first-stage proposals of this topic will be evaluated blindly. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 105. 
 
Expected Outcome:   
Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
 
• drivers behind the rapid decline of specific species are better understood; 
• policymakers, land, water and sea managers, national agencies and other stakeholders 
are provided with fast, practical and effective measures to prevent further decline and 
promote the recovery of affected species populations, thus contributing to the EU 
objectives of nature protection and climate mitigation and adaptation.  
Scope: As a result of unsustainable human activities, the global population of wild species is 
estimated to have fallen by more than 70% over the last 50 years 106 . This is notably 
documented for bird populations, with long -term trends demonstrating that Europe has 
experienced a major decline in biodiversity107. Some species that were considered common in 
the past have recently been assessed as threatened or endangered. 
Proposals should support the implementation of the EU biodiversity strategy for 2030, and 
particularly target 4: “by 2030, significant areas of degraded and carbon -rich ecosystems are 
restored. Habitats and species show no deterioration in conservation trends and status; and at 
least 30% reach favourable conservation status or at least show a positive trend”, the EU 
legislation on biodiversity protection and the Kunming -Montreal Global Biodiversity 
Framework (GBF), especially target 4: “Halt Species Extinction, Protect Genetic Diversity, 
and Manage Human-Wildlife Conflicts”. 
Successful proposals should: 
• assess and improve the understanding of the drivers of decline of common or widespread 
species (present in the EU or Horizon Europe Associated Countries) which current 
decline is not easily explained, to be identified and selected by the proposals. This topic 
is open to species from all types of ecosystems including marine, freshwater, and 
terrestrial; 
• develop and test innovative approaches and actionable solutions to address the decline; 
• develop plans to support future uptake and upscaling after the research project and assess 
how tools, methods and solutions can be adapted and applied across different regions 
and contexts; 
• consider the need for long -term ecological monitoring of the selected species 
populations and associated habitats, e.g. provide recommendations and consider possible 
options for long-term monitoring; 
• if relevant, provide policy recommendations.  
Proposals should foresee appropriate resources to ensure close cooperation with the EC 
Knowledge Centre for Biodiversity (KCBD) and its Science Service. Cooperation with the 
European partnership Biodiversa+ should also be ensured. 
 
International cooperation is encouraged, when relevant, especially in the cases of migratory 
species or species with transboundary populations.