HORIZON-CL6-2026-02-FARM2FORK-01: Developing innovative phytosanitary 
treatments for regulated plant pests to support safe international trade 
Call: Call 02 - single stage (2026) 
 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 5.90 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 11.80 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced portfolio, grants will be awarded to applications 
not only in order of ranking but at least also to one application within 
the area A that is the highest ranked, and one application highest ranked 
within the area B, provided that the applications attain all thresholds. 
Applications must clearly indicate the area they are applying to. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 138. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP). The 
support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• innovative cost -effective environmental -friendly phytosanitary treatments for regulated 
plant pests with proven efficacy and practical applicability are developed and tested; 
• science-based guidelines and standardised protocols to support the consistent and 
efficient application of the developed treatments are available; 
 
• enhanced capacity for implementation, including scalability and cost -effectiveness of 
treatment solutions and engagement of industry and trade actors, regulatory authorities, 
and third parties involved in testing and application.  
Scope: Effective plant health measures play a vital role in protecting agriculture and 
supporting global food security, safeguarding the environment, forests, and biodiversity, and 
enabling safe international trade. Among these measures, (post -harvest) phytosanitary 
treatments 139 — such as vapour, heat, cold, irradiation, and controlled atmosphere — are 
critical tools to prevent the introduction and spread of regulated plant pests 140  through 
imported goods. 
However, the current range of available phytosanitary treatments remains limited. In many 
cases, existing methods lack proven efficacy against specific pests, or scientifically sound 
protocols are unavailable. Moreover, practical challenges related to the implementation, 
scalability, potential health and environmental impact of these treatments often hinder their 
widespread adoption. 
This action aims to stimulate innovation in phytosanitary (post -harvest) treatment solutions141 
to be used in trade. 
Proposals should: 
• develop innovative, cost -effective (post -harvest) phytosanitary treatment(s) to prevent 
the introduction of pests through imports, with a specific focus on EU quarantine 
pests142; 
• test and validate the proposed treatment(s) considering economic, technical, human 
health and environmental dimensions; 
• asses the cost -effectiveness, feasibility, scalability and practical applicability of the 
proposed treatment(s) under operational conditions; 
• evaluate efficacy and specificity of the treatment(s), establishing scientifically sound and 
user-friendly protocols and operational guidelines to ensure consistent application, safety 
and regulatory compliance.  
Proposals should either address Area A: treatment(s) applicable to wood and wood products 
or Area B: post -harvest treatment(s) for fruits and vegetables. The area (A or B) should be 
clearly indicated on the application. 
 
Proposals may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP) to, for instance, test and 
demonstrate the innovative treatments solutions in diverse contexts involving SMEs. 
The projects under this topic are relevant to the EU policies related to the common 
agricultural policy, align with the Vision for Agriculture and Food, and support Regulation 
(EU) 2016/2031 on protective measures against pests of plants.