HORIZON-CL6-2026-01-ZEROPOLLUTION-01-two-stage: Decontaminate and 
bioremediate aquatic pollution 
Call: Call 01 - two stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
7.00 and 8.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 23.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Applicants submitting a proposal for a blind evaluation (see General 
Annex F) must not disclose their organisation names, acronyms, logos 
nor names of personnel in the proposal abstract and Part B of their first -
stage application (see General Annex E). 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or as 
an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation and 
submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The first-stage proposals of this topic will be evaluated blindly. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• competent authorities and the water sector have access to effective solutions – 
particularly based on life sciences and biotechnology – to bioremediate and 
decontaminate aquatic (marine and freshwater, including groundwater) pollution and 
improve the resilience of aquatic ecosystems to climate change and biodiversity decline; 
• local authorities have improved monitoring and management tools for the protection of 
marine, surface and groundwater ecosystems, against contaminants of emerging concern 
(CEC), especially PFAS, antimicrobial substances and microplastics; 
• the impact of CEC, especially PFAS, antimicrobial substances and microplastics on 
marine, freshwater and groundwater ecosystems are better understood including the 
interlinkages of these systems.  
Scope: Chemical pollution of aquatic environments from contaminants and pollutants poses 
risks for human and environmental health. As recent assessments of the Marine Strategy 
Framework Directive and of the Water Framework Directive have shown, large parts of 
Europe’s groundwater bodies, rivers, lakes, coastal, transitional and marine waters have not 
reached good status and often exceed regulatory threshold levels set to avoid potential risk to 
human health and the environment. Continued inflow of pollutants into the aquatic 
environment, coupled with their ubiquity and persistent nature is increasing the risk of 
accumulation and long -term exposure of organisms and human beings. While pollution 
prevention is the most effective measure to tackle aquatic pollution, more effective action and 
novel solutions are needed to bioremediate and decontaminate European waters from 
particularly harmful and persistent substances. 
Aquatic microorganisms and their communities have developed various molecular 
mechanisms to adapt to changing environmental conditions enabling them to degrade a wide 
range of pollutants. The kinetics of community evolution and their molecular mechanisms 
must be considered. However, the complexity of contaminated marine and freshwater 
environments including groundwater, where multiple pollutants often coexist as mixtures, 
metabolites and transformation products are created with changing properties and toxicity 
levels and interactions with the soil or seabed properties makes risk assessment and 
remediation a significant challenge. Therefore, a better knowledge of CEC interaction with 
the surrounding environment (mechanisms, parameters of influence, soil constituents 
involved) is needed to develop optimised treatment. Recent advancements in nanotechnology 
have created new opportunities for environmental cleaning, particularly when combined with 
microbial remediation. As a result, aquatic pollutant -degrading microbes enhanced by 
nanoparticles are becoming increasingly valuable for developing biotechnological tools that 
can effectively clean up contaminated environments. 
Proposals should: 
• develop and demonstrate novel approaches, locally adaptable and site -specific solutions 
for the bioremediation and decontamination of aquatic pollution at source, in rivers, 
lakes, coastal and groundwaters and at sea, including removal processes, management of 
degradation processes, ensuring the approaches do not harm the environment; 
• develop and demonstrate new, effective and affordable technologies, considering 
particularly solutions based on life sciences and biotechnology, including 
microorganisms and/or microbial communities and/or nanoparticles biosynthesized by 
microbial activity, for the removal of pollutants, such as persistent organic pollutants, 
degrading pollutants (e.g. plastics, oil, hydrocarbons), marine mucilage, contaminants of 
emerging concern and targeted micropollutants (PFAS, pharmaceuticals, antimicrobials, 
pesticides and micro -and nano -plastics) from marine waters, wastewater and drinking 
waters and the environment including groundwater and sediments. Recovery of the 
biosynthesized nanoparticles will be an asset in proposals but not required; 
• integrate environmental monitoring methods (including effect -based methods), building 
on existing methodologies, and high-resolution methods for robust risk assessment of the 
impact of CECs on aquatic ecosystems, as well as assessment of the improved resilience 
of bioremediated aquatic ecosystems to climate change; 
• demonstrate pathways and interlinkages of the pollutants in aquatic ecosystems, and to 
develop understanding where management actions are most beneficial and needed; 
• ensure transparent engagement with stakeholders and society on solutions proposed.  
Proposals should bring together a wide range of relevant stakeholders, i.e., researchers, 
technology providers, policy makers and local competent authorities to maximise impact. 
Case-studies representing the regional specificities in term of climate conditions are 
welcomed but not required. 
Proposals should ensure complementarities and avoid overlaps with relevant projects funded 
under Horizon Europe, including the ones funded under the Mission “Restore our Ocean and 
Waters” and under the Partnership for the Assessment of Risks from Chemicals (PARC). 
Projects should engage with and help build an emerging community on decontamination and 
bioremediation, in particular the one envisaged through the related public private initiative in 
the European Water Resilience Strategy. 
The participation of SMEs and Start -ups in the consortia is encouraged. The JRC may 
contribute with its expertise related to nanotechnology/nanoparticles and environmental 
biotechnology particularly in metagenomics and to the effect -based methods for the chemical 
pollutants' detection in water. 
Projects under this topic are relevant to the European Ocean Pact, the Marine Strategy 
Framework Directive, the Water Framework Directive, the Groundwater Directive, the 
Environmental Quality Standards Directive, the European Water Resilience Strategy, the EU 
zero pollution action plan, the Nature Restoration Regulation, the Commission 
communication on Building the future with nature: Boosting Biotechnology and 
Biomanufacturing in the EU, the Life Sciences Strategy and the EU Biotech Act.