HORIZON-CL6-2027-02-FARM2FORK-01-two-stage: Strengthening plant health: 
addressing emerging plant pest risks 
Call: Call 02 - two-stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
6.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Applicants submitting a proposal for a blind evaluation (see General 
Annex F) must not disclose their organisation names, acronyms, logos 
nor names of personnel in the proposal abstract and Part B of their first-
stage application (see General Annex E). 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or 
as an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: the proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The first-stage proposals of this topic will be evaluated blindly. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties. The 
support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 208. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• improved understanding of key drivers of plant pest emergence, including the influence 
of climate change, ecosystem degradation and globalisation; 
• cost-effective and environmentally friendly preventive and/or curative measures for 
managing the targeted plant pest(s) are identified, validated, and made available to 
farmers and forest owners for effective pest management; 
• robust scientific support is delivered to strengthen decision-making processes.   
Scope: Effective plant health measures are essential for protecting agriculture and forestry, 
ensuring food security, preserving ecosystems and biodiversity, and enabling safe and 
sustainable trade. This action aims to strengthen plan health by addressing emerging plant 
pests209, whether regulated or unregulated, introduced or native, that currently pose, or are 
likely to pose, significant socio -economic and/or environmental threats to agriculture and 
forestry within the EU and Associated Countries. 
Proposals should target one or more emerging plant pests 210 , taking into account the 
increasing risks driven by climate change, biodiversity loss, land use changes, globalisation 
and other contributing factors, with the exception of plant pests targeted in Horizon Europe211. 
Proposals should: 
• enhance understanding of pest(s) biology, introduction pathways, mechanisms of spread, 
thereby reducing uncertainties and lack of data in pest risk assessments; 
• develop rapid, safe, and cost-effective tools and methods for preventing introduction and 
spread of the pest(s); this includes early detection, surveillance, treatment, and 
(bio)control measures (including innovative agro -ecological or forestry management 
practices), in line with sustainable and integrated pest management; 
 
• assess the social, economic, and environmental impacts of plant pest(s) establishment 
and spread on farmers and/or forest owners and develop strategies to mitigate these 
impacts effectively; 
• contribute to the identification of resistant and/or tolerant traits.  
Proposals may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP) to, for instance, develop, test 
and demonstrate tools and methods for early detection, surveillance, treatment, and 
(bio)control measures. 
Proposals must implement the multi -actor approach including a range of actors to ensure that 
knowledge and needs from various sectors such as research, plant health services, 
farming/forestry sectors, advisory services, and industry are brought together. 
International cooperation with countries affected or threatened by the same pest(s) is strongly 
encouraged. Results should address diverse farming systems/approaches, including 
conventional and organic farming. When relevant, consider a gender sensitive and inclusive 
approach and the specific needs of groups in vulnerable situations. 
Proposals should contribute to the objectives of the common agricultural policy, the 
Sustainable Use of Pesticides Directive 212 , the policies related to the EU’s Vision for 
Agriculture and Food, the EU Action Plan for the Development of Organic Production 213 and 
support Regulation 2016/2031214 on protective measures against pests of plants. 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the consortium selected for 
funding. In particular, the JRC would consider potential collaboration related to the update of 
potential impacts of the selected pests using the impact indicator for priority pests and 
acceptability of control measures by farmers and foresters.