HORIZON-CL6-2026-02-FARM2FORK-14: Green Transition Food Processing Africa 
Call: Call 02 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution 
per project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 5.00 
and 6.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection 
of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative 
budget 
The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 11.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: the proposals must apply 
the multi-actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor approach in this 
work programme part. 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or as an 
associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation and 
submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
International organisations with headquarters in a Member State or 
Associated Country are exceptionally eligible for funding. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: due to the specific 
challenge of this topic, in addition to the minimum number of participants 
set out in the General Annexes, consortia must include at least three 
independent legal entities established in an African Union member state*. 
The places of establishment of at least two of these legal entities must be in 
 
the same region, as defined by the African Union: see 
https://au.int/en/member_states/countryprofiles2. 
Due to the scope of this topic, legal entities established in all African Union 
member states* are exceptionally eligible for Union funding. * "African 
Union member states" includes countries whose membership has been 
temporarily suspended. 
Legal and 
financial set-up 
of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the Decision 
of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions under the 
Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for Research and 
Innovation (2021-2027) – and in actions under the Research and Training 
Programme of the European Atomic Energy Community (2021-2025) 176. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP). The 
support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
 
Expected Outcome : Project results are expected to contribute to the following expected 
outcomes: 
• food processing facilities in Africa which target underutilized crops to deliver safe and 
healthy nutrition avoiding over processing, such as pulses and soy, millets, yams, 
cassava for some regions, fish and fisheries products, or food chains of high value for 
local markets or export, like the cocoa chain and fruits, both organic and conventional, 
have improved their operations investing in safe storage practices (avoiding mycotoxins 
and pesticide residues), quality assurance and control, innovative careful processing 
techniques and sustainable and reusable packaging, by using results from life sciences 
and biotechnologies, such as fermentation, in processes based on renewable energy; 
• post-harvest food losses and waste are reduced, by using by -products in the process, 
following circular approaches in support of the new EU bioeconomy strategy through 
new and innovative techniques and best practices and food safety ready for scale -up by 
complementary instruments of the EU Global Gateway Strategy such as the AU -EU 
Innovation Agenda and the EU International Partnerships such as DeSIRA+.  
Scope: Proposals should: 
• promote start-ups and other innovative SMEs by providing a space for mentoring and 
accelerating innovative business concepts, including social innovation and upscaling in 
view of African or European food business entrepreneurs with special consideration of 
 
diversity involving women, young entrepreneurs and the diaspora using cascading 
funding opportunities; 
• lead to healthy, safe and nutritious food. New processing opportunities should increase 
biodiversity with increased market opportunities for underutilized crops. They should 
link to other projects of the AU -EU Food and Nutrition Security and Sustainable 
Agriculture Priority (FNSSA) in particular the CEA -First coordination and support 
action and the International Research Consortium. It should build on results of previous 
projects including linkages to projects funded under the AU -EU priority on “Climate 
Change and Sustainable Energy (CCSE)”.  
Proposals must follow the multi -actor approach, by combining researchers, food processors 
(including the informal sector), farmers, NGOs and other food systems actors. 
Proposals are encouraged to work together with the Joint Research Centre via the European 
Commission’s Knowledge Centre on Global Food and Nutrition Security to leverage its 
knowledge base on relevant topics (e.g. on nutrition and the use and potentials of neglected 
and underutilised crops) and to expand the reach and dissemination of the project's results. 
Proposals may involve financial support to third parties e.g. to academic researchers, start -
ups, SMEs and other multidisciplinary actors, to, for instance, develop, test or validate 
approaches. 
When relevant, proposals should take into account the activities of NDICI 177 funded Regional 
Centres of Excellence related to green transition.