HORIZON-CL6-2027-02-FARM2FORK-05: Enhancing farmer's profitability and 
resilience through innovations for diversified crops and value chains  
Call: Call 02 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: the proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 203. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP). The 
support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• farmers are able to transition to diversified, resilient and innovative cropping systems, 
increasing their sustainability, competitiveness and promoting biodiversity conservation 
as well as climate adaptation and mitigation; 
• profitability of farming is boosted through the adoption of diversified cropping systems 
and the development of local value chains as well as through the valorisation of crops 
by-products; 
• awareness and knowledge/data exchange among actors on the benefits of diversified 
cropping systems for farmers and for downstream value chains across Europe is 
increased.  
Scope: Crop diversification supports farmers resilience to external shocks, be it economic, 
climatic, or market related. By reducing dependency on a single farmed crop, farmers can 
strengthen their competitiveness in an ever-changing agricultural landscape. The temporal and 
 
spatial diversification of crops through e.g. rotation and associations, are drivers for low -
input, resource -efficient farming systems that can fulfil the need to produce food, feed, 
industrial products (e.g. bioenergy, biomaterials, biochemicals) and other ecosystems 
services. These diversified and low -input farming systems will emerge if clear benefits to 
farmers and society are demonstrated and if the downstream value chains are properly 
organized. 
Proposals should:  
• develop, test and showcase innovative solutions as well as business and cooperation 
models with a focus on activities addressing the challenges to support farmers in 
diversifying their crop production, enhancing profitability, resilience and sustainability; 
• assess the viability and impact of the practical implementation of the proposed 
innovations on the overall sustainability of farmers activities and businesses (economic, 
social and environmental). The climate change mitigation and biodiversity protection 
and restoration potential of the proposed innovations should be analysed; 
• describe an exploitation pathway tailor -made for the developed innovations through the 
different necessary steps (e.g. market research, regulatory approvals and licensing, IP 
management etc.) in order to accelerate exploitation of the results; 
• provide support to farmers to transition to crop diversification, addressing the specific 
challenges of the sector and designing strategies to overcome them. Create diverse 
practice-oriented dissemination materials, such as audiovisuals, brochures, presentations, 
that showcase innovations in a creative way, incorporating artistic elements for engaging 
storytelling.  
Activities must fall under the concept of the multi -actor approach and allow for adequate 
involvement of SMEs, technology developers, farmers and consumers. The involvement of 
farmers SMEs is crucial and should be fostered through targeted calls and financial support to 
third parties, particularly for SMEs developing and testing the proposed innovative solutions. 
Proposals should address various farming systems/approaches, one of which should be 
organic farming. 
Proposals should allocate adequate resources to collaborate with topic projects funded under 
other topics in this work programme, in particular "HORIZON -CL6-2027-02-FARM2FORK-
03. Proposals should clearly explain how they will build on and not duplicate past and 
ongoing EU-funded R&I activities, including relevant projects and activities funded under the 
Horizon Europe Partnership ‘Agroecology’ and the EU Mission Soil. 
The projects under this topic are relevant to the EU policies related to the EU Vision for 
Agriculture and Food, the EU Action Plan for the Development of Organic Production 204 and 
the Common Agricultural Policy. 
 
