HORIZON-CL6-2026-02-FARM2FORK-13: Boosting plant health and reducing losses 
on farm and during storage for sustainable growth in Africa (FNSSA) 
Call: Call 02 - single stage (2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
contribution per 
project 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: the proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
International organisations with headquarters in a Member State or 
Associated Country are exceptionally eligible for funding. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: due to the specific 
challenge of this topic, in addition to the minimum number of 
participants set out in the General Annexes, consortia must include at 
least three independent legal entities established in an African Union 
member state*.  
Due to the scope of this topic, legal entities established in all African 
Union member states* are exceptionally eligible for Union funding. * 
"African Union member states" includes countries whose membership 
has been temporarily suspended. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 173. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• enhanced ability of agricultural actors in Africa to manage plant pest risks sustainably, 
contribute to the strengthening of food security while addressing climate and 
biodiversity challenges; 
 
• agricultural actors identify and implement practices to prevent and reduce crop losses 
due to plant pests pre-harvest and during storage in Africa.   
Scope: Plant pests affecting crops in the field and/or harvests during storage are an important 
burden to food security, contributing to significant food losses in Africa. These can also affect 
internal markets and trade. It is thus crucial to tackle the impact of plant pests in an integrated 
manner, while ensuring this is done through technologies and practices fostering agricultural 
sustainability, resilience to climate change and safeguarding biodiversity. 
Proposals should: 
• advance knowledge on biology, mechanism of disease, spread dynamics, and climate 
change impacts on key plant pests across different African agro -ecosystems, considering 
also climate change impacts; 
• develop cost -effective, environmentally friendly methods, tools and strategies that are 
safe to consumers for the sustainable management of the most impactful plant pests in 
Africa, aiming to minimise crop losses both at pre -harvest and during storage of 
harvests; 
• foster agroecological integrated pest management practices aiming at reducing the 
impact of plant pests; 
• improve productivity and the quality of crop products in the African agricultural systems 
by reducing the impact of plant pests.  
Insects, weeds, fungi, bacteria, and viruses that can damage crops fall within the scope of this 
topic and are considered plant pests. Applicants are expected to explain and justify the choice 
of pest(s) in alignment with the proposal’s objectives and the topic’s expected outcomes. 
The actions funded under this topic are relevant to the EU policies related to EU Vision for 
Agriculture and Food, the Global Gateway strategy, contribute to the African Union -EU High 
Level Policy Dialogue on Science, Technology and Innovation and to the respective R&I 
partnerships on Food and Nutrition Security and Sustainable Agriculture (FNSSA) and on 
Climate Change and Sustainable Energy. Projects under this topic are relevant for the climate 
objectives of the African Union and the EU, and for the commitments of the Kunming -
Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework. 
Proposals should contribute to the implementation of the short -term and medium-term actions 
outlined in the AU-EU Innovation Agenda174 in the priority area of Green Transition (notably 
action (4) among short -term actions and (1) and (3) for medium -term actions), and aim to 
translate R&I efforts into tangible business, products, services, development and employment 
opportunities in Africa and Europe. 
 
Furthermore, when relevant proposals are encouraged to seek connections with Regional 
Multi-actors Research Networks on Agroecology supported by the EC in Africa175. 
Proposals must implement the multi-actor approach to ensure the adequate involvement of the 
public authorities, advisory services, farmer organisations, and industry. 
Proposals should adopt an inclusive approach that respects and integrates local knowledge 
and practices alongside technological and scientific expertise, where indigenous insights are 
enriched by innovative approaches and new technologies through mutual learning.