HORIZON-CL6-2027-03-GOVERNANCE-03: International dimension of the circular 
bio-based economy: seeking win-win opportunities 
Call: Call 03 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 3.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 3.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If eligible for funding, legal entities established in non -associated third 
countries may exceptionally participate in this Coordination and support 
action as a beneficiary or affiliated entity. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Agreements Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 357. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• improved multi-level governance capable of anticipating a changing world and enabling 
a just sustainable transition for all, as related to the potential of bio -based innovation and 
industry in the global bioeconomy to deliver on multilateral climate and biodiversity 
targets; 
• improved stakeholder engagement and trust, related to the global dimension of 
sustainable bioeconomy, with a focus on circular bio -based solutions and approaches 
with reduced carbon footprint as well as biotechnology, biomanufacturing and 
biorefining.  
Scope: This topic is in line with the Commission communication on: Building the future with 
nature: Boosting Biotechnology and Biomanufacturing in the EU, the Life Sciences Strategy, 
the EU Biotech Act, the Clean Industrial Deal, the upcoming EU Circular Economy Act, the 
policies related to the fair green transition (i.e. EU Green Deal ambition of leaving no one 
behind) as well as the EU global commitments on climate change and biodiversity. 
Proposals should: 
• analyse bottlenecks and opportunities (in terms of measurable socio -economic and 
environmental impacts) of the international cooperation in sustainable and fair/just bio -
based circular innovation, identifying key interested players active in this area, including 
the European circular bio -based industry, international organisations (e.g. OECD, FAO, 
Global Bioeconomy Summit) and like -minded international partners, civil society 
actors). The focus should be on actions in selected key areas (including, but not limited 
to biorefining 358 , biotechnology 359 , biomanufacturing, environmental applications, 
international biomass trade analysis, circularity of bio -based economy, intellectual 
property (IP) aspects, global infrastructure mapping, etc). This should take into account 
the diversity of approaches, perspectives and initiatives in non -EU contexts (e.g. G20 
 
work on bioeconomy), in view of effective international cooperation and dialogue on 
circular and fair bio-economy/bio-based economy; 
• develop an inclusive and transparent networking approach to support stakeholder 
engagement and international dialogue (via existing structures, platforms, bioeconomy 
databases and dashboards 360 , and other instruments 361 ), considering the role of the 
governance actors, propose suitable trust-building measures (e.g., co-creation, sharing of 
best practice, mutual learning), aiming at the global common challenges and win -win 
solutions, with impact on sustainable economic development, UN SDGs 362, climate and 
biodiversity); 
• prepare a roadmap for next steps of international cooperation in this area, provide 
recommendations to policy makers on national and regional level, and other interested 
stakeholders (e.g., industry), propose solutions to ensure long -term impact, including by 
linking to existing activities and by applying suitable digital means (e.g., webinars, 
scientifically robust social media use, etc.).  
Proposals are encouraged to work together with relevant initiatives including those of the 
European Commission’s Joint Research Centre (Knowledge Centre for Bioeconomy, 
Bioeconomy Monitoring System, etc.). 
Synergies with activities under the Circular Bio -based Europe (CBE) Joint Undertaking and 
International Bioeconomy Forum as well as Global Bioeconomy Summit are encouraged. 
This topic should involve the effective contribution of Social Sciences and Humanities (SSH) 
disciplines. 
International cooperation is strongly encouraged, in particular with South Africa, Latin 
America and the Caribbean.