HORIZON-CL6-2027-03-GOVERNANCE-06: Fostering generational renewal in 
agriculture via EU advisory network 
Call: Call 03 - single stage (2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.50 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 4.50 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: the proposals must 
apply the multi -actor approach. See definition of the multi -actor 
approach in this work programme part. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 370. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• advisors are better equipped with up -to-date knowledge, skills and tools to support 
young generation in entering into and successfully running the farming business, while 
taking into account the consequences of climate change and biodiversity loss;  
 
• an attractive, high-quality training offer and advice suited to the evolving skills demands 
of the new generation attract young, talented farm entrepreneurs and lead to a new wave 
of innovative agricultural businesses.   
Scope: Generational renewal is a prerequisite for European farming systems to remain 
resilient and competitive in the medium and long term. The actions funded under this topic is 
relevant to the EU policies related to the EU Vision for Agriculture and Food and the 
objective to shape an attractive farming and agri -food sector for future generations. To 
accomplish this, it is important to provide active support and specialised trainings for 
newcomers and young farmers. Advisors are best placed to accompany, monitor and mentor 
new farmers in the different stages of setting up and managing new farms. In addition, they 
can support new farmers in building social networks from a professional point of view and 
provide guidance on the different needs of takeovers and new farms. They can also contribute 
to advance gender equality and inclusion in this sector. 
A novelty in the current CAP strategic plans is that advisors should be integrated within the 
AKIS as well as be impartial, competent and up to date on scientific and innovation 
developments371 . They should be able to translate the knowledge and provide concrete, 
targeted and practical solutions for farmers adapted to specific local circumstances. 
Proposals should: 
• foster in-depth exchange of knowledge and experiences among advisors across the EU 
on the needs of young farmers and new entrants to successfully enter and run an 
agricultural business in the long-term; 
• develop and widely share diverse useful resources, tools and approaches, including 
learning materials and courses, new business strategies/plans, cross -border visits, 
internships and other initiatives that should empower advisors to effectively support 
young and/or new farmers in addressing the identified needs for taking over / entering 
and staying in the farming sector; 
• equip advisors to deliver guidance and support throughout the various stages of farm 
establishment. This should include offering guidance on various preparatory steps such 
as securing land, exploring financing options, and crafting business strategies. Advisors 
should also help farmers navigate practical elements like technology use, financial 
management, legal matters, and sustainable farming practices addressing among others 
climate change and biodiversity loss. Additionally, they should address challenges that 
arise in the early years of farm development. Special attention should be given to 
promoting generational transfer, helping older farmers plan for and facilitate farm 
succession; 
 
• involve advisors in an innovative EU -wide communication and awareness -rising 
campaigns to reposition farming as an attractive and rewarding career choice for the 
young generations; 
• ensure collaborations with national or regional authorities and AKIS ecosystems to 
promote the project outputs and ensure that they will be updated and maintained in the 
long-term beyond the project duration.  
The proposals must implement the multi -actor approach and ensure adequate involvement of 
all relevant stakeholders. Minimum 50% of the number of the people involved in the project 
should be impartial advisors spending at least half of their time on giving advice to farmers. A 
plan for financial sustainability and maintenance of the EU advisory network in the long -term 
beyond the project duration should be included in the proposal.