HORIZON-HLTH-2027-01-DISEASE-10: Prevention and management of chronic non -
communicable diseases in children and young people (GACD) 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2027/1) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 11.80 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in the 
United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 
4 (Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 273. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Tackling diseases and reducing disease 
burden”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim to deliver results that are directed 
at, tailored towards and contributing to some of the following expected outcomes: 
• Researchers, healthcare practitioners and providers in low - and middle-income countries 
(LMICs) 274  and/or those in high -income countries (HICs) serving disadvantaged 
populations have access to improved insights and evidence on how to equitably promote 
the early prevention, risk reduction, and timely diagnosis of Non -Communicable 
Diseases (NCDs) in children and/or young people. 
• Policymakers, public health managers and authorities, parents and their children, and 
young adults have access to evidence and recommendations for national programmes 
and policies to improve quality of life in children and/or young people and extend 
healthy life expectancy. 
• Researchers, clinicians, policymakers, public health managers and authorities have an 
improved understanding how to effectively adapt and/or scale up interventions for 
 
prevention and management of chronic NCDs in children and/or young people at local, 
regional, and national levels. 
• Communities, parents and their children, young adults, local stakeholders and authorities 
are fully engaged in implementing and taking up interventions that tackle NCDs in 
children and/or young people.  
Scope: The Commission is a member of the Global Alliance for Chronic Diseases (GACD)275. 
The GACD specifically addresses NCDs and supports implementation research 276 to improve 
health outcomes. This topic is launched in concertation with the other GACD members 
(international funding agencies) and aligned with the 12th GACD call. 
Chronic NCDs that begin in childhood have an impact on both quality of life and life 
expectancy. Onset of many NCDs diseases occurs at younger ages in LMICs, and this is 
further accompanied by a longer duration of disease and a higher rate of complications, 
including multimorbidity. The conditions in which people are born, grow and live (the social 
determinants of health) including access to good nutrition, education, housing, and healthcare 
are major contributors to health and ill health277. 
Up to 70% of preventable adult deaths from NCDs are linked to risk factors originating in 
childhood and adolescence 278 , and interventions that can successfully control or prevent 
chronic disease in young people can dramatically improve health outcomes later in life. 
Childhood and adolescence are critical periods, when behaviours associated with NCD risk 
are adopted including tobacco use, alcohol use, substance abuse, unhealthy diets and 
sedentary lifestyles and children and young people are often targeted by commercial 
marketing of unhealthy products. 
The aim of this topic is to fund implementation research, exploring strategies, evidence -based 
program and policy interventions across prevention, diagnosis, screening and management of 
chronic NCDs, centred on the critical life stages spanning early childhood to young adulthood 
(1-24 years of age) living in LMICs, and/or underserved populations in HICs. 
In this regard, proposals focused on implementation research should explore implementation 
strategies on evidence -based interventions, adaptations of interventions and tailored 
interventions, or initiatives including (though not limited to) those focussed on one or more of 
the following: 
• Policy evaluation to tackle childhood - and/or youth-relevant social, economic, political, 
structural or commercial determinants of chronic NCD conditions. 
 
• Prevention of NCDs using children and/or young people targeted implementation 
strategies (e.g. educational strategies, vaccination strategies, promotion of behavioural 
and lifestyle changes). 
• Screening and diagnosis of NCDs (or risk factors) in children and/or young people (in 
particular use of digital tools). 
• Cost effective and patient -centred management of NCDs in children and/or young 
people (including access to medicines and equipment; integrated care pathways; 
continuity of care for adolescents with existing non -communicable diseases who "age 
out" of paediatrics, caregiver health and support, citizen science approaches).  
Multiple interventions focus on prevention of NCDs in children and young people, yet 
relatively few have focussed on strategies for management of chronic conditions in these 
critical life stages, and a limited number of studies have been carried out to study 
implementation of these in LMIC contexts or with underserved communities. In this instance 
it would be anticipated that proposals should explore implementation strategies using the 
appropriate hybrid design study incorporating effectiveness and implementation research 
outcomes. Therefore, it may be important to undertake formative research as a part of the 
proposal to support readiness for implementation. 
The proposed implementation research should be focused on one or more evidence -based 
interventions (or complex interventions), providing existing evidence of the intervention’s 
effectiveness, cost-effectiveness, sustainability, scalability and potential for long -term health 
and other impacts (and in what context this evidence has been generated). 
Applicants should provide rationale and explore the implementation of proposed 
intervention(s) for a selected study population(s) based in one or more LMICs, and/or 
underserved populations experiencing health disparities, including Indigenous populations, in 
HICs, considering the unique social, political, economic, and cultural context(s) in which the 
study will take place 279. Applicants should justify why any adaptation will not compromise 
the known effectiveness of the selected intervention(s). 
Proposals should address all the following implementation research activities280: 
• Clearly describe the implementation research methodology, including the statistical 
design. 
 
• Have an appropriate strategy for measuring implementation research outcomes and real -
world effectiveness outcomes and indicators. 
• Specifically address issues of equitable implementation to ensure interventions reach the 
populations that need them the most. 
• Engage an appropriately expert and skilled research team which can ensure a suitable 
multidisciplinary approach and that demonstrates equitable partnership and shared 
leadership between HIC -LMIC, and/or non -Indigenous-Indigenous members of the 
project team and external stakeholders through a clear governance strategy. 
• Provide a stakeholder engagement strategy with evidence of support/engagement from 
key stakeholders for delivering the intervention and a pathway to sustain the proposed 
intervention (if proven effective) after the funding from the GACD grant ends. 
• Provide opportunities for NCD -focused implementation research capacity building for 
early career researchers and team members from lower resourced environments, such as 
LMICs or disadvantaged communities. 
• Ensure meaningful involvement of early career team members, including at least one 
early career member as a co-investigator.  
The study population may include children and/or young people in the general population, 
with one or more existing NCDs, those currently without NCDs, or a combination of any of 
the above. Applicants may propose implementation research focused on interventions that are 
implemented at the individual, family, community (e.g. work or school), population, and/or 
structural level. With regard to NCDs, applicants are encouraged to explore any chronic non -
communicable condition (or combination of conditions), including mental health disorders, 
autoimmune conditions, musculoskeletal conditions, neurological disorders and sleep 
disorders and/or any risk factor (or combination of risk factors). Additionally, whenever 
relevant, applicants are also encouraged to take a life course approach, adapting interventions 
for particular life stages with the goal of promoting life-long health. 
Proposals should use an appropriate implementation research design and framework281, before 
and after studies, and additional implementation science classifications of study designs (e.g. 
hybrid designs282), noting that applicants are not limited to any particular design. 
Proposals would be expected to generate evidence that is of direct relevance to policymakers, 
communities and practitioners. Proposed work should identify and engage all key 
stakeholders necessary and relevant to the development, undertaking and knowledge 
translation phases of the project, including meaningful collaboration with young people 
 
themselves (and their families). Proposals should also consider using co -development and co-
design approaches, involving policymakers, local authorities, community groups, educators, 
healthcare providers, and other individuals or organisations necessary to the delivery and 
sustainability of the study outcomes. Project partners should be engaged from the beginning 
to contribute to the sustainability of the intervention after the end of project. Proposals should 
demonstrate sustainability of the strategy, beyond the lifespan of the project. 
Poverty, discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin 283, religion or belief, disability, 
age, and other inequities are directly associated with reduced potential for equitable access to 
quality care. Proposals should consider relevant determinants of health (e.g. social, structural, 
commercial, economic) and discuss their potential impact on the effective implementation of 
the intervention(s). If there is a focus on a particular population (e.g. gender, racial or ethnic 
origin284, etc.), then the reason for this should be justified. 
This topic requires the effective contribution of social sciences and humanities (SSH) 
disciplines and the involvement of SSH experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of 
relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce meaningful and significant effects enhancing the 
societal impact of the related research activities. 
All projects funded under this topic are strongly encouraged to participate in networking and 
joint activities, including internationally, as appropriate. These activities could, for example, 
involve the participation in joint workshops, the Annual Scientific Meetings of the GACD, the 
exchange of knowledge, the development and adoption of best practices, or joint 
communication activities. Therefore, proposals are expected to include a budget for such 
activities and may consider covering the costs of any other potential joint activities without 
the prerequisite to detail concrete joint activities at this stage. The details of these joint 
activities will be defined during the grant agreement preparation phase. 
Applicants should provide details of their clinical studies 285 in the dedicated annex using the 
template provided in the submission system. As proposals under this topic are expected to 
include clinical studies, the use of the template is strongly encouraged.