HORIZON-HLTH-2026-03-DISEASE-13: European Partnership for Pandemic 
Preparedness (Phase 2) 
Call: Partnerships in Health (2026/2) 
Specific conditions 
 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
63.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 63.00 million. 
Type of Action Programme Co-fund Action 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The proposal must be submitted by the coordinator of the consortium 
funded under topic HORIZON -HLTH-2024-DISEASE-12-01: 
“European Partnership for Pandemic Preparedness”. This eligibility 
condition is without prejudice to the possibility to include additional 
partners. 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in the 
United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. Because 
the US contribution will be considered for the calculation of the EU 
contribution to the partnership, the concerned consortium of research 
funders from eligible EU Members States and Associated Countries 
must expressly agree to this participation. 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 4 
(Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The evaluation will take into account the existing context and the scope 
of the initial evaluation as relevant, and related obligations enshrined in 
the grant agreement. 
If the proposal is successful, the next stage of the procedure will be grant 
agreement amendment preparations. 
If the outcome of amendment preparations is an award decision, the 
coordinator of the consortium funded under topic HORIZON -HLTH-
2024-DISEASE-12-01: “European Partnership for Pandemic 
Preparedness” will be invited to submit an amendment to the grant 
agreement, on behalf of the beneficiaries. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
This action is intended to be implemented in the form of an amendment 
of the grant agreement concluded pursuant to Article 24(2) of the 
Horizon Europe Regulation. 
For the additional activities covered by this action: 
• The funding rate is 50% of the eligible costs. This is justified by 
the pooling of proposers' in -kind contributions and in -house 
activities and by the nature of activities to be performed: in 
addition of joint calls, sustain and further develop the EU -wide 
networks and infrastructures for clinical research, and in particular 
a network of ever-warm clinical trial sites. 
• Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties 
(FSTP). The support to third parties can only be provided in the 
form of grants. As a co -funded European Partnership, providing 
financial support to third parties is a core activity of this action in 
order to achieve its objectives. Consequently, the EUR 60 000 
threshold laid down in Article 207 of Financial Regulation (EU, 
Euratom) 2024/2509 does not apply. The maximum amount of 
FSTP that may be awarded to any single third party for the 
duration of the partnership is set at EUR 3.00 million. This ceiling 
is justified by the fact that FSTP is a primary activity of this 
action, by its expected duration of 7 -10 years (exceeding a 
standard project lifespan), and by the extensive experience gained 
under predecessor partnerships. This ceiling is also justified by the 
fact that the FSTP will support infectious diseases research 
involving multi -country research networks and infrastructures as 
well as their coordination. However, if the objectives of the ac tion 
would otherwise be impossible or overly difficult (and duly 
justified in the proposal) the maximum amount may be higher. 
• The starting date of the grant awarded under this topic may be as 
of the submission date of the application. Applicants must justify 
the need for a retroactive starting date in their application. Costs 
incurred from the starting date of the action may be considered 
eligible (and will be reflected in the entry into force date of the 
amendment to the grant agreement). 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Total indicative 
budget 
The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 63 million committed in 
annual instalments over the two years, 2026 and 2027 (EUR 30 million 
from the 2026 budget and EUR 33 million from the 2027 budget). 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Tackling diseases and reducing disease 
burden”. Proposals under this topic should aim to deliver results that are directed at, tailored 
towards and contributing to all the following expected outcomes: 
• The EU offers a valued operational network of clinical research sites (both interventional 
and observational) that have the capacity to implement well -coordinated large -scale 
multi-country quality clinical studies in different target populations, which are able to 
smoothly transition to interventions relevant for cross -border health threats in readiness 
for or response to a public health emergency. 
• Key stakeholders, including relevant EU and national entities, the scientific 
communities, policymakers and funders enhance their collaboration and coordination to 
strengthen research on pandemic preparedness and response, forming a strong, structured 
and comprehensive ecosystem with shared evidence, tools and methodologies cutting 
across sectors. 
• Research funders, policymakers, relevant EU and national entities, and the research 
community recognise and rapidly close relevant research and related infrastructure gaps 
and break existing silos on pandemic preparedness research and response, adopting a 
One Health approach. 
• Healthcare authorities, regulatory authorities, policymakers and other stakeholders utilise 
research results to develop evidence -based strategies and policies for pandemic 
preparedness and response, and deploy good practices to European countries and 
regions, and beyond whenever relevant. 
• The research community benefits from and uses an improved comprehensive knowledge 
framework integrating the EU, national/regional data and information infrastructures to 
improve transnational research in the area of pandemic preparedness and response. 
• The EU is strengthened as an internationally recognised actor for pandemic preparedness 
research and response, as such substantially contributing to global cooperation and 
coordination.  
Scope: This topic targets an action under Article 24(2) HE Regulation aiming to add 
additional activities to existing grant agreements, together with additional partners (if 
relevant) that would deliver on those activities. The award of a grant to continue the 
partnership in accordance with this call should be based on a proposal submitted by the 
coordinator of the consortium funded under topic HORIZON -HLTH-2024-DISEASE-12-01: 
“European Partnership for Pandemic Preparedness” and the additional activities (which may 
include additional partners) to be funded by the grant, such as the close coordination with the 
Clinical Trial Coordination Mechanism (CT -CM)203, should be subject to an evaluation. The 
partnership should be firmly anchored within the framework of the European Health Union 
package204  and ensure synergies with the European Health Emergency Preparedness and 
Response Authority (HERA) and other relevant Commission services. The partnership’s 
activities are expected to be key enablers of the EU Global Health Strategy 205. Taking into 
account that the present action is a continuation of the topic HORIZON -HLTH-2024-
DISEASE-12-01: “European Partnership for Pandemic Preparedness” and foresees an 
amendment to an existing grant agreement, the proposal should present the additional 
activities (including additional partners) to be covered by the award primarily in terms of 
grant agreement revisions. The existing action, the “Be Ready Now - European Partnership 
for Pandemic Preparedness” (BE READY NOW) can only reasonably be enhanced and 
enlarged on the basis of the existing consortium 206, as the co -funded framework established 
cannot simply be replaced without significant disruption, given the top -quality, long -term 
expertise and wide coverage of the beneficiaries comprising this consortium. 
The partnership should contribute to the actions proposed in the Joint Communication on the 
European Preparedness Union Strategy (JOIN(2025) 130 final 207 ) which recognises the 
essential contribution of research and innovation to allow “continuously adapted, optimised 
and state -of-the-art responses to crisis”. It should also contribute to the “Strategy for 
European Life Sciences” 208. Synergies with EU programmes such as EU4Health Programme 
(2021-2027)209 or the Digital Europe Programme210 are encouraged. 
The co-funded Partnership for Pandemic Preparedness should enable improved coordination 
and cooperation on national and European levels (and contributing globally), building on the 
Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda (SRIA) 211 established in the first phase of the 
partnership. The partnership’s implementation is grounded in coordinating and jointly funding 
transnational research, combined with a strong focus on integrative ‘in -house’ activities, 
ultimately reinforcing the readiness of Europe’s research ecosystem. As a continuation of an 
existing action, the proposal should present the additional activities (including additional 
partners) to be covered by the award primarily in terms of grant agreement revisions. 
 
The partnership should cover the full scope of preparedness research, ranging from basic and 
pre-clinical research, to clinical, public health, social sciences and implementation research. 
The partnership will consider the interplay between environmental, ecological and climatic 
factors and the emergence and spread of health threats and will adopt a One Health approach 
to better understand and mitigate the risks of emerging infectious diseases. 
Of particular interest is the consolidation and further development of the ever -warm clinical 
research network, comprising both observational and interventional studies, ensuring 
continuous clinical research activity across diverse sites, and with the in -built capacity to 
rapidly respond to public health emergencies. In this regard, the partnership should ensure that 
provisions are in place for the close coordination with the CT -CM, which i) should facilitate 
providing scientific advice on the clinical research needs in preparedness and response to 
public health emergencies, and ii) promote a coordinated approach to the national and EU 
funding of identified clinical research needs. 
The partnership should strengthen the European Research Area by supporting excellence in 
innovative research and capacity building, widening the engagement of countries not yet 
involved. As a demonstration of its added value, the partnership should be able to attract the 
engagement of a broad range of stakeholders beyond European health authorities and research 
funders, such as private and philanthropic actors and innovators. 
The participation of start -ups, micro, small and medium -sized enterprises (SMEs) 212  is 
encouraged with the aim of strengthening their scientific and technological foundations, 
enhancing their innovation potential, and exploring possibilities for commercial exploitation. 
The relevant European research infrastructures 213 in the area of health should be exploited for 
available services, expertise and digital tools for dataset creation, standardisation, data 
discovery, secure access, management, visualization, harmonization, analysis and other 
functions as appropriate. 
When defining calls for proposals in the context of jointly funded transnational research, the 
partnership should consider sex and identity -related differences. If relevant, it also needs to 
consider the effective contribution of social sciences and humanities (SSH) disciplines and the 
involvement of SSH experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of relevant SSH expertise, to 
produce meaningful and significant effects enhancing the societal impact of the related 
research activities. The support and involvement of citizens and civil society should be 
considered. 
The partnership will consolidate a suitable health research data ecosystem aligned with the 
European Health Data Space (EHDS) 214, and the European Open Science Cloud (EOSC) 215 
 
supporting the harmonisation and standardisation as well as the federated access of FAIR 216 
research data in the context of pandemic preparedness and response. The partnership’s work 
should comply with the appropriate ethical, regulatory and legal frameworks, and should 
ensure the timely translation of research outcomes into effective clinical and public health 
policy and innovation.