HORIZON-HLTH-2027-02-TOOL-01-two-stage: Development of predictive biomarkers 
of disease progression and treatment response by using AI methodologies for chronic 
non-communicable diseases 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Two stage - 2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
6.00 and 8.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 44.20 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Applicants submitting a proposal for a blind evaluation (see General 
Annex F) must not disclose their organisation names, acronyms, logos 
nor names of personnel in the proposal abstract and Part B of their first -
 
stage application (see General Annex E). 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in the 
United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
For the first stage, the thresholds for each criterion will be 4 
(Excellence) and 4 (Impact). The overall threshold applying to the sum 
of the two individual scores will be set at a level that ensures the total 
requested budget of proposals admitted to stage 2 is as close as possible 
to four times the available budget, and not less than three and a half 
times the available budget. 
For the second stage, the thresholds for each criterion will be 4 
(Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 4 (Implementation). The cumulative 
threshold will be 12. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The first-stage proposals of this topic will be evaluated blindly. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Developing and using new tools, 
technologies and digital solutions for a healthy society”. To that end, proposals under this 
topic should aim to deliver results that are directed at, tailored towards and contributing to all 
the following expected outcomes: 
• Clinical researchers and developers have access to novel predictive biomarkers to guide 
a more accurate assessment of disease progression and treatment response and tackle the 
unmet clinical needs of non-communicable chronic diseases. 
• Clinicians and healthcare professionals use clinically validated predictive biomarkers for 
implementing more effective clinical research and personalised medicine with better 
health outcomes in chronic non-communicable diseases. 
• Key stakeholders have access to trustworthy Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools to guide 
the development of multimodal predictive biomarkers of higher accuracy and clinical 
value when compared to the established practice. 
• The citizens benefit of better health outcomes thanks to improved clinical guidelines and 
the implementation of effective biomarker -guided clinical research and personalised 
healthcare.  
Scope: Biomarkers389 are invaluable tools for improving patient outcomes, guiding treatment 
decisions, accelerating personalised medicine, more effective clinical research and the 
development of better medicines. 
However, despite the scientific discoveries of many clinically relevant biomarkers, estimated 
on the scale of tens of thousands, only a few biomarkers have been implemented in clinical 
practice. The traditional ‘one biomarker’ paradigm is insufficient for addressing the unmet 
clinical needs of chronic, progressive and multifactorial diseases, due to the complexity of the 
clinical phenotypes characterised by broad inter -and intra -patient heterogeneity. The 
established biomarkers have limitations in their use as prognostic and predictive indicators, 
for the assessment of the disease progression and the choices of the optimal therapeutic 
interventions tailored to the patients’ characteristics. 
Therefore, the topic focuses on the clinical development of predictive biomarkers of disease 
progression and treatment response for chronic non -communicable diseases (excluding 
cancer) by using established AI methodologies able to combine data of clinically used and 
candidate biomarkers, with available data from relevant clinical studies, longitudinal and 
Real-World Data (RWD) 390. This topic is expected to support collaborative projects paving 
the way for future innovations in personalised medicine and enabling more timely and 
effective therapeutic interventions. 
The proposals should address all the following research and innovation activities: 
• Set-up a multidisciplinary collaboration to map and evaluate the available information 
and data on biomarkers currently used in the clinical setting, candidate biomarkers from 
 
past and ongoing clinical studies, which are scientifically proven as clinically relevant to 
the disease progression and treatment response for the chronic non -communicable 
diseases under study. This should include stratification by biological sex, and where 
feasible, integration of gender -related variables and sociodemographic determinants that 
may modulate disease trajectories or treatment efficacy. 
• Adapt and apply of established AI methods rather than developing novel ones from 
scratch, to deliver novel predictive biomarkers of disease progression and treatment 
response, by integrating data of currently used and candidate biomarkers, with suitable 
data from available longitudinal and other relevant clinical studies, including RWD, as 
necessary. To guarantee a solid and fast optimisation and training of the AI tools, the 
applicants should provide information in their proposal that the appropriate high -quality 
clinical data are readily available, and when necessary generate small -scale new data for 
the AI optimisation needs. The biomarkers under study should be multimodal, covering 
for instance molecular, cellular, physiological, imaging, behavioural and digital markers, 
and/or their combinations. The applicants should justify why the development of the 
biomarkers proposed is imperative to tackle the unmet clinical needs of the chronic non -
communicable diseases under study. 
• Use AI and, where needed, other relevant data and knowledge integration methods, to 
describe the relationships among different biomarkers and support the robust 
prioritisation of predictive biomarkers tailored to the characteristics of the patients’ and 
their disease stage and treatment response. Proposals should have strong emphasis on the 
AI trustworthiness 391  and develop the adequate performance metrics to assess their 
accuracy, reliability, reproducibility, including the assessment of possible inherent bias. 
Use of AI and dataset should comply with existing privacy -preserving legislation. 
Moreover, proposals should consider the development of user -friendly and fit -for-
purpose visualisation and decision -support tools to guide clinicians in evaluating the 
clinical plausibility of the biomarkers under study across diverse patient groups. 
• Establish a biomarker validation platform to assess the clinical utility of the predictive 
biomarkers identified. To this end, the applicants should implement clinical validation 
studies in independent disease cohorts, RWD and exploratory clinical studies, as 
appropriate, to demonstrate their clinical value as prognostic and predictive indicators 
for more effective clinical research and better patient health outcomes as compared to 
the established clinical practice of chronic non -communicable diseases. Prospective 
clinical studies are expected to be led by entities in the EU/EFTA and/or Associated 
Countries. 
 
• Develop a comprehensive exploitation plan for the valorisation of the research outputs 
and a regulatory strategy to support the alignment to the regulatory requirements for the 
qualification of the biomarkers and/or AI tools and engage with the regulators in a timely 
manner. The applicants should prioritise the exploitation of their research results in the 
EU. Participation of small and medium -sized enterprises (SMEs) 392 is encouraged with 
the aim to strengthen the scientific and technological basis of SMEs and valorise their 
health innovations.  
Proposals should apply good practices for GDPR393 compliant personal data protection. 
Proposals are encouraged, where relevant, to exploit the available data services, expertise and 
digital tools offered by the relevant European research infrastructures 394  and/or data 
infrastructures395 in the area of health funded under the Digital Europe Programme. 
All proposals selected for funding under this topic will be strongly encouraged to participate 
in networking and joint activities (e.g. participation in joint workshops, development of best 
practices, or joint communication activities), which may also involve networking with 
projects funded under Horizon Europe, or other EU programmes (e.g. the Digital Europe 
Programme396). The proposals should allocate a sufficient budget for networking and joint 
activities, without the prerequisite to detail such activities at the proposal stage. 
Applicants should provide details of their clinical studies 397 in the dedicated annex using the 
template provided in the submission system. As proposals under this topic are expected to 
include clinical studies, the use of the template is strongly encouraged.