HORIZON-HLTH-2026-01-DISEASE-03: Advancing research on the prevention, 
diagnosis, and management of post-infection long-term conditions 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
6.00 and 8.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 39.30 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in the 
 
United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 
4 (Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 151. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Tackling diseases and reducing disease 
burden”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim to deliver results that are directed 
at, tailored towards and contributing to all the following expected outcomes: 
• All players along the healthcare value chain have access to evidence-based treatment and 
management strategies for post -infection conditions and improve patient recovery and 
quality of life across diverse populations. 
• Public health authorities and healthcare practitioners have access to effective prevention, 
diagnostic and treatment tools, ensuring better allocation of healthcare resources. 
• Healthcare systems improve their efficiency and reduce long -term economic burdens by 
streamlining post-infectious disease care and addressing disparities in healthcare access. 
 
• Public health authorities have access to evidence -based information to integrate research 
findings into policy for improved public health preparedness and resilience, including 
training of healthcare staff and enhanced long-term disease management guidelines.  
Scope: Microbial infections can lead to long -lasting consequences on patients’ quality of life, 
leading to long-term conditions characterised by persistent inflammation, organ damage, and 
impaired functional capacity, which pose a growing public health and economic challenge. 
These conditions are insufficiently understood, underdiagnosed, and lack effective treatments. 
Advancing research into their prevention, treatment and management is essential to improving 
patient outcomes, reducing healthcare burdens, and strengthening workforce productivity. 
The topic is open to long -term conditions resulting from infections by any type of 
microorganism (including viruses, bacteria, parasites, and fungi), which persist after the initial 
infection has been resolved. Research linked to cancer is excluded as it will be covered by the 
Cancer Mission. 
Proposals should aim to develop innovative approaches for the prevention, diagnosis, and 
management of post -infection conditions. Proposals should address most of the following 
research areas: 
• Identify protective and risk factors associated with the development of post -infection 
conditions to inform targeted prevention strategies, by integrating relevant information 
such as genetics, epigenetics, immune or inflammatory responses, and/or other relevant 
factors. 
• Increase understanding of the pathophysiology of post -infection conditions (including 
inflammatory aspects) to identify biomarkers and develop clinically validated diagnostic 
approaches for early detection, disease progression and/or treatment optimisation. 
• Develop and validate preventive and/or therapeutic interventions, including targeted 
pharmacological treatments, repurposing of existing drugs or precision medicine 
approaches, through early -stage clinical trials 152  that demonstrate clinical safety and 
efficacy. 
• Identify effective supportive rehabilitation approaches, including physical therapy, 
cognitive interventions, and psychological support, to enhance patient recovery, mental 
health and quality of life and evaluate their effectiveness. 
• Examine best practices for integrating post -infectious disease management into primary 
and specialised healthcare settings, improving coordination among healthcare 
professionals.  
Specific attention should be given to sex and gender, as women often experience post -
infectious diseases differently due to hormonal and other biological, as well as social factors, 
which can affect their diagnosis, treatment, and recovery. Moreover, age, disability, racial or 
 
ethnic origin153, socio-economic, lifestyle and behavioural factors should also be considered. 
Particular emphasis should be placed on populations in a vulnerable situation and groups with 
pre-existing conditions to ensure equitable and inclusive healthcare solutions. 
A multidisciplinary, cross-sectoral approach is encouraged, involving all relevant stakeholders 
(medical and non -medical), including patients, researchers, healthcare professionals, and 
policymakers. 
Proposals should develop a harmonised approach to collection, storage, sharing and analysis 
of FAIR154 data, leveraging existing European (research) infrastructures, including biobanks 
or cohorts’ data 155  where relevant and contribute to emerging research infrastructures, 
established in the framework of the European Health Data Space (EHDS)156 and the European 
Open Science Cloud (EOSC)157. 
Proposals should demonstrate complementarity with ongoing EU initiatives, including 
projects funded under relevant topics 158, and outline plans for collaboration where applicable, 
to maximise synergies and avoid duplication of research efforts. 
All projects funded under this topic are expected to participate in networking and joint 
activities159. They are also expected to engage early on with the European Medicines Agency 
(EMA) to ensure adequacy of the actions from a regulatory point of view. Where relevant, a 
Health Technology Assessment (HTA) should be conducted to evaluate the clinical, 
economic, and social implications of interventions. 
If applicable, applicants are encouraged to incorporate artificial intelligence (AI) tools and 
advanced computational modelling/Virtual Human Twin (VHT) -powered tools to predict 
disease risk and progression, ensuring these tools are developed and tested for diverse 
populations to minimise bias. Hardware and software should be interoperable in line with 
internationally accepted standard. 
This topic requires the effective contribution of social sciences and humanities (SSH) 
disciplines and the involvement of SSH experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of 
 
relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce meaningful and significant effects enhancing the 
societal impact of the related research activities. 
Participation of start -ups, micro, small and medium -sized enterprises (SMEs) 160  is also 
encouraged to strengthen their scientific and technological foundations and enhance their 
innovation potential. 
Applicants should provide details of their clinical studies 161 in the dedicated annex using the 
template provided in the submission system. As proposals under this topic are expected to 
include clinical studies, the use of the template is strongly encouraged.