HORIZON-HLTH-2026-01-CARE-03: Identifying and addressing low -value care in 
health and care systems 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
10.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 38.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility conditions The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in 
the United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, 
navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must 
make use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and 
services may additionally be used). 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) 
and 4 (Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Ensuring equal access to innovative, 
sustainable, and high -quality healthcare”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim 
to deliver results that are directed at, tailored towards and contributing to all the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Healthcare providers and policymakers make use of evidence -based indicators and 
methodologies to identify low -value care 329  practices, as well as opportunities for 
improvement and tools to monitor such improvements. 
• Healthcare professionals are equipped with the knowledge and tools to implement 
guidelines for reducing or discontinuing low -value care activities and maintaining 
effective and patient-centred practices that ensure quality of care. 
• Patients and citizens benefit from more effective healthcare, by understanding and 
endorsing measures that reduce low -value care, recognising the potential to achieve 
higher-quality healthcare and better health outcomes overall. 
• Health and care systems benefit from a reduction of low -value care practices, which 
enables enhanced patient safety and quality of care, while contributing to their efficiency 
as well as fiscal and environmental sustainability. 
• Healthcare organisations can, by identifying low-value care practices, reallocate valuable 
healthcare resources to other areas of need.  
Scope: Low-value care, as defined in the footnote, can have widespread negative 
consequences for patients, caregivers, healthcare professionals, the health and care system, 
and the broader environment. A 2017 OECD report 330 estimated that “wasteful healthcare 
spending is common” and that “up to one -fifth of healthcare spending could be redirected 
towards better uses”. Low-value care represents a significant challenge, contributing to waste, 
costs, misuse of resources, and inefficiencies. Addressing low -value care can free up and 
allow reallocation of valuable healthcare resources to other areas of need, thereby maximising 
health outcomes, improving health and care systems resilience, and reducing their 
environmental impact. In this context, a recent report 331  by the Expert Group on Health 
 
Systems Performance Assessment (HSPA)332 establishes the methodological basis and metrics 
to identify, measure and reduce low-value care. 
Research activities under this topic should adopt a patient -centred approach that considers the 
needs and preferences of patients and citizens. They should promote socially acceptable 
solutions, taking into account relevant ethical, social and legal aspects and foster dialogue and 
collaboration between policymakers, healthcare providers, healthcare professionals, and 
patients/citizens. Proposals should engage citizens and civil society organisations in the 
development of their actions to ensure acceptability of solutions. By doing so the projects will 
contribute to better use of healthcare resources -including time and personnel - in ways that 
significantly improve patient outcomes and alleviate the increasing burden on healthcare 
professionals and health systems. Implementation research and multidisciplinary approaches 
should be considered to foster adoption and ensure effective interventions and long -term 
sustainability. 
Proposed activities may 333 include clinical studies 334 to provide evidence on the value of any 
interventions or processes and, therefore, facilitate justified removal of any type of low value 
care. Proposed activities may also include data models, digital and artificial intelligence-based 
analysis, models and/or tools to identify and/or address low -value care. Proposed activities 
may examine the design and impact of healthcare payment systems, that could unintentionally 
incentivise low -value care and evaluate alternative financing models that better align 
incentives with patient outcomes and high -value care. Proposed activities may also facilitate 
or implement collaboration among registries (disease registries such as cancer registries, 
primary healthcare visits registries, prescription and drug purchase registries, reimbursement 
and medical devices registries, screening databases, socio -economic and census databases, 
etc.) across regions or countries, to enable or improve the assessment and comparison of 
different levels of care and their value to patients. Additionally, activities that facilitate 
learning and best practice transfers between countries or regions may also be considered as 
element of the proposal (for instance, to leverage best practice -sharing initiatives from 
international platforms such as the Knowledge Hub of the co -funded European Partnership on 
Transforming Health and Care Systems 335  or any other relevant European or global 
initiatives). Additionally, proposals may include or support international comparisons of low -
value care practices and strategies for their reduction across countries, if and where deemed 
valuable. 
Research actions should address all the following objectives: 
• Develop a deeper understanding of how low -value care can be identified and measured 
throughout the healthcare process, including testing related indicators and producing 
 
https://health.ec.europa.eu/publications/identifying-measuring-and-reducing-low-value-care-context-
health-system-performance-assessment_en 
evidence-based methodologies that enable the pursuit of improved efficiency and quality 
of care. 
• Identify instances of overuse, misuse, underuse and unwarranted variation in specific 
healthcare contexts across different stages of the healthcare process. This analysis should 
provide actionable insights for policymakers, healthcare providers and healthcare 
professionals to evaluate the potential of possible strategies for reducing low -value care, 
allowing for more informed decision-making and improved care practices. 
• Develop and/or pilot innovative strategies for effective reduction of low -value care in 
specific settings across the care pathway. These pilots should demonstrate scalability and 
transferability across diverse health and care systems in Europe.  
Proposals should consider how gender norms and roles influence utilisation patterns, ensuring 
that strategies to reduce low -value care do not inadvertently exacerbate existing gender and 
social inequalities in healthcare access and outcomes. In addition, attention should be paid to 
intersectional factors that may further affect healthcare access and outcomes. If handling data 
and indicators, sex - and gender -disaggregated data should be collected and analysed, 
incorporating intersectional factors where feasible. 
Proposals should consider the work and output of any EU level initiatives (e.g. the Expert 
Group on Health Systems Performance Assessment, the co -funded European Partnership on 
Transforming Health and Care Systems, relevant projects or Joint Actions funded under the 
EU4Health Programme (2021 -2027)336  and under EU Research & Innovation Framework 
Programmes, etc.) or other international initiatives (e.g. the 2017 OECD report mentioned 
above) in this area. 
Applicants envisaging337 to include clinical studies 338 should provide details of their clinical 
studies in the dedicated annex using the template provided in the submission system.