HORIZON-HLTH-2027-03-TOOL-04: Virtual Human Twins (VHTs) for integrated 
clinical decision support in prevention and diagnosis 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2027/2) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
10.00 and 12.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
 
project appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 39.30 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in 
the United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, 
navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must 
make use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and 
services may additionally be used). 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) 
and 4 (Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Developing and using new tools, 
technologies and digital solutions for a healthy society”. To that end, proposals under this 
topic should aim to deliver results that are directed at, tailored towards and contributing to all 
the following expected outcomes: 
• Healthcare professionals have access to multi -scale401, multi-organ models of individual 
patients that aim to improve prevention and diagnosis in high disease burden areas. 
• Health professionals benefit from enhanced knowledge of complex diseases and co -
morbidities by recourse to multi-scale, multi-organ models. 
 
• Patients with diverse characteristics (e.g. of any sex, age group, racial or ethnic origin402) 
benefit from improved, integrated and personalised prevention and diagnostics tools. 
• Health professionals and patients benefit from the use of “Virtual Human Twin” (VHT) 
models which enable integration of other preventive and diagnostic tools and modalities.  
Scope: VHTs are digital representations and in -silico models of an individual’s health and 
disease state at different levels of anatomy. Multi -scale, multi -organ VHT solutions have a 
potential for tailored prevention and diagnosis, particularly in areas of high disease burden, 
and can significantly benefit citizens' health and the efficiency of EU health systems. 
Proposals should take into account the work of projects funded under topic HORIZON -
HLTH-2023-TOOL-05-03: “Integrated, multi -scale computational models of patient patho -
physiology (‘virtual twins’) for personalised disease management”, which had a predominant 
focus on disease management, and focus on high -potential multi -disciplinary approaches at 
greater complexity (multiscale, multiorgan, longitudinal), strengthening their deployment in 
health and care, including the integration into care pathways and links with other decision 
support tools. 
The proposals should address all the following activities: 
• Select clinical use cases to deliver multi -disciplinary, high impact solutions requiring 
multi-organ, multi -scale approaches to modelling complex pathophysiology over time, 
as a basis from where prevention and diagnosis of diseases with high morbidity and 
mortality could be enhanced. Proposals can put forward use cases in any areas of high 
disease burden; examples include co -morbidities, chronic cardiovascular conditions, 
infection and (auto)immunity, inflammation and cancer, diabetes and related conditions, 
rare diseases, degenerative diseases (including their interaction with mental health 
conditions), the exposome and its impact on human health and disease. 
• Building on current approaches, standards, data repositories (e.g. biobanks, 
environmental data, others) and modelling assets (e.g. those of the EDITH CSA 403 and 
the Platform for Advanced VHT Models 404), and new data if relevant, design, develop, 
extend and validate multi -organ, multi -scale, dynamic computational models that 
accurately simulate a person’s health and disease states, as necessary. 
• Evaluate, select, extend and validate diverse modelling methodologies, resulting in 
integrated, advanced, interoperable, patient -specific VHT models that can integrate 
diverse data sources and methodologies, addressing the chosen clinical use case 
requirements. Methodologies may include and are not limited to biophysics -based 
 
modelling, artificial intelligence (AI) that should be interpretable or allow explainability 
of outcomes, generative AI and in-silico modelling, agent-based and network physiology 
approaches. Evaluation, selection and extension of these should be documented during 
the design phase. Availability and integration of the multi -modal data should be 
documented, and the ethical and sex dimensions be investigated. 
• Demonstrate integration of these models with other advanced preventive and diagnostic 
modalities, tools and techniques enabling integration across pathways. 
• Generate evidence, including clinical validation, that the solutions deliver clinically 
meaningful decision support, addressing use case requirements. Document lessons -
learned for broader application. Gather evidence via health economic and/or feasibility 
studies in real -world healthcare settings confirming cost -effectiveness vis-à-vis current 
practice (e.g. cost -effectiveness analysis). Produce an exploitation plan on regulatory 
compliance405 and intellectual property.  
Proposals should be multidisciplinary; solution design and development should be end -user-
focused and draw on user and non -user input. Best practice in VHT software development 
including responsible AI development should be followed (e.g. risk assessment and 
management, requirements definition process). 
Participation of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs)406 is encouraged. 
Proposals should contribute to the objectives of the European VHT Initiative 407 and to the 
Platform for Advanced VHT Models, with project assets made available on the Platform and 
interoperable with its technical specifications 408; relevant consortia members should join its 
User Community. Budget should be reserved for these activities. Projects are expected to 
collaborate with other EU -funded projects on VHTs 409 and align with relevant EU initiatives 
funded under Horizon Europe, the Digital Europe Programme 410  and the EU4Health 
Programme (2021-2027)411, e.g. European Cancer Imaging Initiative 412, 1+Million Genomes 
Initiative 413 , Intensive Care Unit Data Space 414 , co -funded European Partnership for 
Personalised Medicine415, and projects on advancing AI in health where relevant. 
 
This topic requires the effective contribution of social sciences and humanities (SSH) 
disciplines and the inclusion of relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce meaningful and 
significant effects enhancing the societal impact of the related research activities. 
Applicants should provide details of their clinical studies 416 in the dedicated annex using the 
template provided in the submission system. As proposals under this topic are expected to 
include clinical studies, the use of the template is strongly encouraged.