HORIZON-HLTH-2026-01-STAYHLTH-03: Building public trust and outreach in the 
life sciences 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
1.50 and 1.90 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 1.90 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, legal entities established in the 
United States of America may exceptionally participate as a beneficiary 
or affiliated entity, and are eligible to receive Union funding. 
Coordinators of projects must be legal entities established in an EU 
Member State or Associated Country. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or as 
an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 
4 (Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 64. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Staying healthy in a rapidly changing 
society”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim to deliver results that are directed 
at, tailored towards and contributing to all the following expected outcomes: 
• Strengthened capacity of life sciences actors in science communication, risk 
communication, public outreach, and citizen engagement. 
• Strengthened awareness of risks and benefits of life sciences by the public, by 
showcasing the latest Research and Innovation (R&I) developments in the life sciences, 
and their societal impact. 
 
• New and innovative approaches developed to engage the public in R&I activities in the 
life sciences, with an emphasis on inclusive and participatory approaches, involving 
relevant stakeholders (e.g. researchers, research funders, policymakers, publishers, civil 
society organisations, business, and citizens).  
Scope: Life science innovations significantly contribute to peoples’ daily life and to 
individual and social well -being. To foster public trust, people must understand how life 
sciences work and how these technologies may impact people’s lives. 
This trust is not guaranteed. It is increasingly threatened by the rapid spread of mis - and 
disinformation and by insufficient outreach to and involvement of people to address their 
concerns and expectations. To maintain and deepen trust, especially among young people, 
R&I policymakers, researchers and industry players must be better equipped to engage with 
the public and to pursue responsible research and innovation. 
Citizen engagement is particularly critical in areas like agriculture and food technology, 
where innovation intersects with health and sustainability considerations and values. 
Furthermore, citizen participation is key to build trust in the life sciences and ensure that they 
meet societal needs. By engaging citizens early on, we can ensure that research and 
innovation align with their values, concerns and expectations. This involves designing 
research and innovation processes that incorporate citizen input, such as setting research 
priorities, and create outcomes that are responsive to their needs. 
To this end, proposals should address all the following activities: 
• Provide advisory support and training to life science stakeholders, in order to upskill 
them in science communication and risk communication. 
• Produce, publish and advertise to the relevant actors, guidance to engage citizens 
upstream in the development, co-production, and co-design of life sciences innovation. 
• Produce, publish, and advertise to the relevant public an accessible repository of tools 
for life science stakeholders on risk communication. 
• Design and run community engagement activities in the life sciences, in partnership with 
relevant local actors, such as science museums, R&I organisations, and/or community 
organisations.  
Regarding advisory support and training, proposals should present how they will engage 
bilaterally with life science stakeholders to advise them and train them on science 
communication and risk communication in the life sciences. The proposal selected for funding 
should also establish links with the European Competence Centre for Science 
Communication65 currently being created by the COALESCE 66 project and expected to be 
launched in 202767. 
Regarding engagement of citizens in the development, co -production and co -design of life 
sciences innovations, proposals should focus on advising and training life science actors in 
deliberative citizen participation and co -design with citizens, including tools that allow 
discussions about values and ethical considerations of innovations in this sector. Proposals 
should set out the ways in which they will support life science actors to involve citizens in co -
design, and also set out how they will evaluate the impact of the citizen engagement activities 
that they have supported. The consortium selected for funding is encouraged to use the tools 
and methods developed under previous research and tailor them to the life sciences. 
Regarding the repository of tools and support for risk communication, such tools already exist 
and have been developed, notably the EU funded projects listed in the CORDIS Results Pack 
“Science communication: Empowering citizens in the public discussion of science” 68, the 
CORDIS Results Pack “Ethics and integrity: Building bridges for trust and excellence in 
research and innovation” 69  and the World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines for 
emergency risk communication 70. Proposals should present what tools they will gather, how 
they will publish them, and what publicity and outreach they will conduct to raise awareness 
of this repository among the relevant life science actors (policymakers, researchers, industry, 
civil society organisations), tailoring tools and trainings to the life sciences. Proposals should 
present a long -term strategy for how the repository of tools will continue to be accessible 
beyond the lifecycle of this Coordination and Support Action (CSA). 
Regarding community engagement activities, proposals should experiment with new and 
engaging formats across the programmed activities. Proposals should promote both science 
education, and multiple forms of public engagement with science, focusing on the life 
sciences. Proposals should focus on any areas within the life sciences, but at least one 
community engagement activity should focus on agriculture and food technology. The 
consortium selected for funding is encouraged to make use of findings and tools for 
stakeholder engagement developed by other Horizon Europe projects, including projects 
funded under topic HORIZON -CL6-2023-GOVERNANCE-01-6: “Co -creation and trust -
building measures for biotechnology and bio -based innovation systems”. The consortium 
selected for funding is also encouraged to establish links with the projects funded under topic 
HORIZON-WIDERA-2026-07-ERA-05: “Pillar III: Fostering citizen engagement for more 
responsible and democratic R&I”, that will develop tools and guidelines on public 
engagement in R&I, and to tailor these tools and guidelines to applications in the life sciences. 
 
Proposals should explain how they will partner with relevant local actors, such as science 
museums, R&I organisations, and/or community organisations, to run innovative community 
engagement activities on the life sciences. 
Proposals may consider involving the European Commission's Joint Research Centre (JRC) to 
participate in the advisory board of the consortium selected for funding, notably to benefit 
from the expertise of the JRC's Competence Centre on Participatory and Deliberative 
Democracy71, regarding the engagement of citizens in the design of life sciences innovations 
and community engagement activities. Any such collaboration should be established after the 
proposal’s approval.