HORIZON-HLTH-2027-02-DISEASE-01-two-stage: Innovative healthcare 
interventions for non-communicable diseases 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Two stage - 2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
7.00 and 8.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 63.80 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Applicants submitting a proposal for a blind evaluation (see General 
Annex F) must not disclose their organisation names, acronyms, logos 
nor names of personnel in the proposal abstract and Part B of their first -
stage application (see General Annex E). 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in the 
United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
For the first stage, the thresholds for each criterion will be 4  
(Excellence) and 4 (Impact). The overall threshold applying to the sum 
of the two individual scores will be set at a level that ensures the total 
requested budget of proposals admitted to stage 2 is as close as possible 
to three times the available budget, and not less than two and a half 
times the available budget. 
For the second stage, the thresholds for each criterion will be 4 
(Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 4 (Implementation). The cumulative 
threshold will be 12. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The first-stage proposals of this topic will be evaluated blindly. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 227. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Tackling diseases and reducing disease 
burden”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim to deliver results that are directed 
at, tailored towards and contributing to all the following expected outcomes: 
• Researchers, developers and clinical practitioners have access to state -of-the-art 
knowledge, data, technologies, tools, methods, best practices, and trainings to develop 
innovative healthcare interventions aimed at reducing burden of the following specific 
Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs): cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, chronic 
respiratory diseases or chronic kidney diseases. 
• Scientific and clinical communities can use innovative healthcare interventions to 
generate meaningful advances in clinical practice and care for patients with NCDs 
following validation in late-stage clinical trials. 
• Scientific and clinical communities make wide use of relevant databases and/or integrate 
them with existing infrastructures for storage and sharing of collected data according to 
FAIR228 principles, thereby encouraging further use of the data. 
• Policymakers, scientific and clinical communities, developers, patient organisations, 
regulators, and other relevant bodies are informed of the research advances made and the 
requirements for a widespread implementation of the innovative therapeutic 
interventions and complementary approaches. 
• Patients and caregivers are constructively engaged with the research, ensuring that their 
needs are catered for, with the aim of tangibly benefitting from the interventions.  
Scope: NCDs represent over 80% of the disease burden in Europe and the leading cause of 
avoidable premature deaths. Innovative and effective healthcare interventions are required to 
provide treatment and disease management solutions and assure best quality of care for 
patients suffering from NCDs when prevention strategies have failed. 
Proposals should address all the following aspects: 
 
• Perform rigorous early stage 229 clinical trial(s) to validate novel or refined healthcare 
interventions230 for treatment and/or disease management solutions for patients suffering 
from the following specific NCDs: cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, chronic respiratory 
diseases or chronic kidney diseases 231 . Whenever relevant, existing co - and 
multimorbidities should be addressed in the trial design. 
• Clinical trial(s) should be supported by completed proof -of-concept232 of clinical safety 
and efficacy. 
• Both preclinical research and the draft clinical trial protocol should be completed at the 
time of submission of the proposal. Proposals should also demonstrate evidence of 
preliminary consultations with ethics and regulatory authorities at the time of 
submission. 
• A sound feasibility assessment, including an appropriate patient selection and realistic 
recruitment plans, justified by publications or preliminary results should be provided. 
• Take into account sex and gender differences in all relevant aspects throughout the 
research process, and consider stratification criteria such as age, disability, racial or 
ethnic origin 233, socio -economic status, genetic and epigenetic variations, etc., where 
relevant. 
• Use and/or develop technologies, including digital ones (e.g. (generative) Artificial 
Intelligence, wearable technologies) to help implement and monitor the long -term 
efficacy of the intervention(s), as well as manage the disease and/or monitor their 
progression (e.g. with unobtrusive technologies suitable for patient monitoring at home 
and in real -world conditions), whilst also ensuring they are bias -free, inclusive, and 
ethically sound. Hardware and software should be interoperable in line with 
internationally accepted standards 234. The use of virtual human twins 235 could also be 
considered, where relevant. 
• Exploit existing data, health data infrastructures 236, biobanks, registries and/or cohorts, 
together with the generation of new data that should be managed in line with the FAIR 
 
principles and contribute to emerging research infrastructures established in the 
framework of the European Health Data Space (EHDS)237, when relevant. 
• Advance research by leveraging already existing and emerging state -of-the-art research 
infrastructures as well as results stemming from EU -supported research projects, where 
applicable. 
• Engage all relevant stakeholders (especially patients and patients’ representatives, 
caregivers, clinicians, counsellors, regulators, etc.) to design end -user optimised 
interventions. 
• Engage with national public health authorities and regulators to ensure a robust 
development pathway and further uptake of the intervention. 
• Present a thorough health-economic assessment and Real-World Data (RWD)238 analysis 
to enhance sustainability and scalability of novel interventions.  
The participation of start -ups, micro, small and medium -sized enterprises (SMEs) 239  is 
encouraged with the aim of strengthening their scientific and technological foundations, 
enhancing their innovation potential, and exploring possibilities for commercial exploitation. 
This topic requires the effective contribution of social sciences and humanities (SSH) 
disciplines and the involvement of SSH experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of 
relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce meaningful and significant effects enhancing the 
societal impact of the related research activities. 
All projects funded under this topic are encouraged to participate in networking and joint 
activities, as appropriate 240 and explore potential synergies with projects funded under the 
EU4Health Programme (2021-2027)241 in the area of NCDs. 
Applicants invited to the second stage should provide details of their clinical studies 242 in the 
dedicated annex using the template provided in the submission system. As proposals under 
this topic are expected to include clinical studies, the use of the template is strongly 
encouraged. 
 
