HORIZON-HLTH-2027-01-CARE-02: Personalised approaches to reduce risks from 
Adverse Drug Reactions due to administration of multiple medications 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2027/1) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
8.00 and 10.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
project appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 38.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility conditions The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in 
the United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, 
navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must 
make use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and 
services may additionally be used). 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) 
and 4 (Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Ensuring equal access to innovative, 
sustainable, and high -quality healthcare”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim 
to deliver results that are directed at, tailored towards and contributing to all the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Patients benefit from decreased incidence of Adverse Drug Reactions (ADRs) caused by 
the administration of multiple medications (three or more medicinal products 340) and 
enhanced health outcomes by ensuring safer and more effective use of medication. 
• Healthcare professionals can adopt adverse drug reactions prevention and reduction 
strategies to integrate genetic and other biomarker information into clinical decision -
making to optimise the use of medication, especially in situations of comorbidities. 
 
• Healthcare systems benefit from cost savings thanks to reduced hospital admissions and 
other costs associated with ADRs related to the intake of multiple medicines. 
• Clinical and regulatory guidelines and policies for medication management in case of 
multiple medications can be revised supported by robust evidence. 
• Educational programs for healthcare providers and patients benefit from improved 
awareness and management of polypharmacy and ADRs.  
Scope: While medicinal products contribute considerably to the health of EU citizens, they 
can also have adverse reactions. It is estimated that around 5% of all hospital deaths are due to 
an adverse drug reaction. On average, 16% of hospitalised older 341  patients experience 
significant ADRs, varying in severity and mostly preventable, with commonly prescribed 
drug classes (such as diuretics, anti -bacterials, antithrombotic agents, analgesics, 
antineoplastics, etc.) accounting for most ADRs 342 . Overall, ADRs increase morbidity, 
mortality, hospitalisations, and healthcare costs. 
ADRs from multiple medications contribute significantly to healthcare costs due to increased 
hospitalisations and treatments, making this an area of focus to achieve cost efficiency. 
Initial failure to recognise ADRs can generate inappropriate prescription cascades, in which 
the side effects of drugs are misdiagnosed as symptoms of new problems, resulting in further 
prescriptions and further side effects that tend to accumulate, confusing and complicating the 
diagnostic while aggravating the evolution. Therefore, there is a distinct need for research to 
help identify and prevent such prescription cascades, possibly by maximising the use of 
technology, as well as to improve multiple drug management in order to reduce patient harm. 
Furthermore, it is also possible that aside from the ADRs specific to individual drugs taken in 
combination, new ADRs can emerge as results from the drug combinations themselves. 
Research activities under this topic should make use of the constantly improving health 
technologies and data analytics that provide new opportunities to address these issues more 
effectively, by better integrating medication management into healthcare practices, including 
into Electronic Health Records (EHR) and decision support systems. 
Identifying and validating relevant biomarkers for better patient stratification can contribute to 
significantly decreasing the risk of adverse drug reactions. Biomarkers can also help to detect 
adverse drug reactions early before occurrence of clinical symptoms and enable early 
countermeasures. Generating knowledge on the interaction and complexity of biochemical 
pathways can improve the understanding of patients' response to ADRs and thus provide 
better tailored treatments and early responses to adverse reactions. 
For this purpose, any biomedical strategy that allows a better stratification of patients to 
identify drug response patterns in well -defined patient groups could be used, including in -
 
vitro or in -silico models for adverse drug reactions, imaging biomarkers, drug -drug/drug-
gene/drug-food interactions, therapeutic dose reduction and pharmaco -exposomics, nutrition 
and beverage interference, smoking, vaping, pollution etc. De -escalation studies in view of 
improving multiple drug management can be also considered. Proposals should be sufficiently 
robust to examine differences across various populations, and also consider sex difference in 
drug reactions. 
The further use of results generated by the projects funded under this topic should be ensured 
through data sharing with the relevant stakeholders and the European Medicines Agency 
(EMA), in view of possible adoption of deprescribing or adjusted -prescribing guidelines by 
relevant authorities at EU and national levels. 
Where applicable, applicants are strongly encouraged to follow all relevant guidelines in the 
relevant scientific fields, including but not limited to: 
• Joint EMA/Heads of Medicines Agencies (HMA)/EC Workshop recommendations on 
pharmacogenomics in medicines regulation and on implementation into clinical 
practice343. 
• Pharmaceutical development of medicines for use in the older population, Scientific 
guideline from the EMA344. 
• Guidelines from the Clinical Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium (‘CPIC 
guidelines’)345.  
Proposals funded under this topic should address all the following aspects: 
• Leverage the role of pharmacogenomics, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics in 
predicting and preventing adverse drug reactions in situations of multiple medications 
(three or more drugs administered concomitantly), and propose personalised medicine 
approaches, such as targeted therapies and biomarker -driven treatment strategies, to 
reduce the rate of adverse drug reactions and limit multiple medications. 
• Maximise the use of technology, such as electronic health records, artificial intelligence 
and clinical decision support systems, to support safe medication use and prevent 
adverse drug reactions. 
• Address the ethical, regulatory, and implementation challenges associated with 
integrating personalised medicine into clinical practice to address adverse drug reactions 
due to the administration of multiple medications. 
 
• Generate evidence on the clinical utility and cost -effectiveness of treatment guided by 
pharmacogenomics and other relevant biomarkers -based approach, for single drugs and 
for combinations of drugs. 
• Develop and implement strategies, including regulatory science approaches, for efficient 
integration of project results into daily healthcare. 
• Align with similar work in other EU -funded projects or partnerships, such as the co -
funded European Partnership for Personalised Medicine 346 , the co -funded European 
Partnership on Transforming Health and Care System 347  etc. while avoiding any 
potential overlaps.  
The participation of start -ups, micro, small and medium -sized enterprises (SMEs) 348  is 
encouraged with the aim of strengthening their scientific and technological foundations, 
enhancing their innovation potential, and exploring possibilities for commercial exploitation. 
Applicants should provide details of their clinical studies 349 in the dedicated annex using the 
template provided in the submission system. As proposals under this topic are expected to 
include clinical studies, the use of the template is strongly encouraged. 
 
