HORIZON-HLTH-2026-01-DISEASE-02: Innovative interventions to prevent the 
harmful effects of using digital technologies on the mental health of children and young 
adults 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
8.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 44.20 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility conditions The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in 
the United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, 
navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must 
make use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and 
services may additionally be used). 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) 
and 4 (Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Tackling diseases and reducing disease 
burden”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim to deliver results that are directed 
at, tailored towards and contributing to all the following expected outcomes: 
• Researchers and healthcare professionals have an improved understanding of the neuro -
biological and cognitive/behavioural evidence base on the correlation and impact of 
digital technologies on mental health, including brain development. 
• Policymakers and digital technology and content developers are provided with a robust 
evidence base on the impact (positive or negative) of digital technologies on mental 
health in children and young adults138. 
• Policymakers, digital technology developers, and educational institutions amongst others 
make use (e.g. developing guidelines) of the evidence base and widely implement the 
newly developed interventions aimed at promoting children and young adults’ mental 
health while mitigating any negative impacts of digital technology use. 
• Children, young adults, families, guardians, educators, and carers have access to the 
newly developed interventions designed to prevent harm and promote the positive use of 
digital technologies. 
• Children and young adults are empowered and develop resilience, including digital 
literacy, enabling them to engage in a healthy and positive way with digital technologies.  
Scope: Already before the COVID -19 pandemic, 1 in 6 people in the EU suffered from 
mental health issues. The economic costs of it are estimated at 4% of the Gross Domestic 
Product (GDP) 139 and since then these figures worsened 140 in particular among vulnerable 
groups such as children and adolescents or those at risk of discrimination. Digital 
technologies have the potential to enhance mental health for instance by providing access to 
information, support networks and therapy services141. However, there are indications that the 
excessive or misguided use of digital technologies, particularly among children and young 
adults, can negatively affect mental health and exacerbate mental disorders. There is an urgent 
need for more robust data to foster a safer, responsible and healthier use of digital 
technologies among children and young adults, prioritising the protection of their mental 
health. 
Therefore, proposals should aim at generating robust scientific evidence on the impact of 
digital technologies, as well as developing and testing context -specific digital interventions 
that promote the positive and responsible use of them to improve mental health, avoiding the 
development or exacerbation of mental disorders. These innovative digital interventions 
should leverage multi -source data (e.g. sleep patterns, heart rate, stress levels, screen -time 
analytics, social media use, biological data, clinical data), and could include the use of 
Artificial Intelligence (AI). When handling data and indicators, sex and gender identity -
 
disaggregated data should be collected and analysed, incorporating intersectional factors 
where feasible. 
The applicants should address all the following aspects: 
• Generate the neuro -biological and cognitive/behavioural evidence base on the 
correlation and impact of digital technologies on mental health, including brain 
development (both positive and negative). 
• Develop and test innovative digital interventions aiming for example at: counteracting 
addictive design patterns (e.g. on social media and gaming platforms), gaining insights 
into risk patterns and enabling early risk detection (e.g. detecting early warning signs of 
mental disorders or digital addiction), redirecting users towards healthy use and positive 
engagement with digital technologies, and/or reducing exposure to harmful content. 
• Assess the changes in behaviour in children and young adults of the newly developed 
interventions, aiming at fostering their resilience and promoting responsible use and 
healthy digital habits.  
The topic is open to address any mental disorder 142 caused or aggravated by the use of digital 
technologies such as addiction, self -harm behaviour, increased anxiety or decreased self -
esteem, sleeping-disorders, post-traumatic stress disorders. 
Cohort studies and clinical studies are in the scope for this topic. Applicants envisaging to 
include longitudinal cohort studies are invited to indicate a sustainability plan on how those 
cohorts are maintained over an extended period beyond the end period of the project for a 
long-term follow -up. They should make use of existing cohorts data when available. 
Applicants are welcome to consider recruiting participants transnationally and from diverse 
settings in the clinical study design to ensure generalizability of findings. In addition, it 
should be detailed in the proposal how the proposed intervention(s) could be scaled -up and 
transferred to other settings. Applicants should also consider the inclusion of end -users in the 
codesign of the interventions, for example for the young age groups, this includes the 
involvement of families, carers, educators. Applicants should access and make best -use of 
already existing European Research Infrastructures relevant for brain -research (e.g. 
EBRAINS143, Euro-BioImaging144). 
All projects funded under this topic should liaise with relevant European projects on mental 
health145 and the future co -funded European Partnership for Brain Health 146. They are also 
encouraged to explore potential synergies with projects to be funded under the EU4Health 
 
Work Programme 2026 related to the harmful effects of using digital technologies on the 
mental health of children and young adults. 
The participation of start -ups and/or micro, small and medium -sized enterprises (SMEs) 147 is 
encouraged with the aim to strengthen their scientific and technological basis and valorise 
their innovations and to advance commercial exploitation. 
Proposals should adhere to the FAIR 148  data principles, adopt wherever relevant, data 
standards and data sharing/access good practices, and apply good practices for GDPR 149 
compliant personal data protection. 
The topic requires the effective contribution of social sciences and humanities (SSH) 
disciplines and the involvement of SSH experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of 
relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce meaningful and significant effects enhancing the 
societal impact of the related research activities. The support and involvement of citizens and 
civil society should be considered. 
Applicants should provide details of their clinical studies 150 in the dedicated annex using the 
template provided in the submission system. As proposals under this topic are expected to 
include clinical studies, the use of the template is strongly encouraged.