HORIZON-HLTH-2026-01-ENVHLTH-01: Towards a better understanding and 
anticipation of the impacts of climate change on health 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
7.00 and 8.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 55.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in the 
United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 4 
(Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced project portfolio covering the broad focus areas 
targeted in this topic 83, grants will be awarded (within available budget) 
to proposals not only in order of ranking but at least also to those 
proposals that are the highest ranked within different broad focus areas 
targeted, provided that the proposals attain all thresholds. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
In order to maximise synergies and increase the impact of the projects, 
all proposals selected for funding from this topic will form a cluster and 
be required to participate in common networking and joint activities (and 
 
in determining modalities for their implementation and the specific 
responsibilities of projects). These activities will be included in a 
dedicated work package, having sufficient budget allocated to it (around 
2% of the total requested budget). Depending on the scope of proposals 
selected for funding, these activities may include: 
• Attendance of regular joint meetings (e.g. common kick -off 
meeting and annual meetings). 
• Periodic report of joint activities (delivered at each reporting 
period). 
• Common dissemination and communication activities (which may 
include, for example: a common dissemination and 
communication strategy, web portal and visual identity, brochure, 
newsletters). 
• Common Data Management Strategy and Common Policy 
Strategy (including joint policy briefs). 
• Thematic workshops/trainings on issues of common interest. 
• Working groups on topics of common interest (e.g. data 
management and exchange, communication and dissemination, 
science-policy link, scientific synergies). 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 84. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Living and working in a health -promoting 
environment”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim to deliver results that are 
directed at, tailored towards and contributing to most of the following expected outcomes: 
• Citizens, patients, public authorities, social care services, healthcare practitioners and 
policymakers have a better understanding of the climatic health risks and determinants of 
 
disease and are better equipped to address health outcomes through enhanced and 
inclusive prevention, resilience, adaptation, preparedness and response, including better 
diagnosis and treatment. 
• Governments, public health authorities, researchers and civil society organisations are 
supported to tackle societal challenges linked to the health impacts of climatic factors. 
• Public authorities, organisations and the research community can rely on data collection 
and sharing according to FAIR 85  principles and leveraging of data availability and 
quality. 
• Policymakers and public authorities develop evidence -based climate change and health 
policies and interventions that are nature positive, inclusive and responsive to diverse 
population needs.  
Scope: The climate crisis poses an existential challenge to planetary and human health with 
larger effects on populations, groups and regions in a vulnerable situation. Climate change 
increases the incidence of non -communicable diseases and the prevalence of mental health 
conditions and facilitates the emergence and spread of infectious diseases. Climate change can 
act as a risk multiplier and exacerbates existing health conditions and vulnerabilities. 
Applicants should explicitly state in their proposal which of the following broad focus areas is 
targeted and the proposed work should address only this specific broad focus area:   
i. Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) and/or individual safety (e.g. injuries or fatalities), 
excluding mental health aspects: proposals should explore evidence on the complex 
interactions between climate change (e.g. changes in the frequency and intensity of 
extreme weather events) and NCDs and individual safety, which often involve multiple 
climate exposure pathways and compound and cascading climatic events. 
ii. Mental health, considering interactions with brain health if relevant: in the broad focus 
area of mental health and psychosocial well -being, proposals should increase the 
evidence on the acute and long-term impacts of climate change and the understanding of 
new syndromes related to climate stress. 
iii. Infectious diseases, including vector -borne and non -vector-borne: proposals should 
increase the understanding of the factors driving climate -related burden from infectious 
diseases.  
In general, proposals should develop approaches to prevent and reduce the impacts of climate 
factors in the studied health outcomes and increase population and workforce resilience. A 
One Health approach should also be applied where relevant. 
More specifically, research actions under this topic should include several of the following 
activities, depending on the relevance of each group of activities to the broad focus area 
targeted in the proposal: 
 
• Increase the understanding of correlations, causal pathways and mechanistic effects 
between climate change and disease/health outcomes, developing unified and standard 
methodologies and metrics to assess short - and long-term positive and negative impacts 
of climate change with an adequate level of granularity. Consider individual and/or 
cascading climatic events and exposure patterns, and risks and drivers of vulnerability 
and inequality. 
• Develop longitudinal studies to better ascertain differential effects of climatic stressors 
on health including multiple scales of impacts, ranging from the molecular level to 
population health outcomes. Consider variability across populations, generations and life 
phases, regions and occupations, and collect real -world exposure and health data in 
living and occupational settings, considering the use of emerging ecosystems such as the 
European Health Data Space (EHDS) 86  and the European Open Science Cloud 
(EOSC)87. 
• Study differential acute and long -term health impacts of climate (including a wide range 
of factors and cumulative effects) on vulnerable, sensitive or exposed population groups. 
Consider also differences in geographical vulnerabilities including, when relevant, 
geographical settings outside of urban areas, in overseas regions and in low - and middle-
income countries (LMICs) 88 . Understand the role of inequalities and societal 
vulnerability in determining climate-related health impacts and adaptive capacity. 
• Advance the knowledge on the climate, ecological and environmental drivers of 
pathogen abundance, including mechanisms and determinants of distribution, life -cycle 
patterns, transmission, virulence and survival. Consider climate change drivers of 
disease severity. Study host/pathogen and vector/host interactions clarifying the role of 
secondary reservoir hosts such as sylvatic, wildlife and livestock in the maintenance of 
pathogen life cycle. Assess the efficacy, cost -effectiveness and impact of control 
measures. 
• Explore the role of climate -driven human and wildlife mobility (e.g. bird migration 
patterns, human migration) in enhancing the global spread of pathogens and creating 
opportunities for their local establishment. Collect better field data and develop tools for 
disease modelling, risk and scenario projections that encourage interoperable data 
systems and cross border collaboration. 
• Increase the availability, accessibility, quality and standardisation of diagnostic testing 
for early diagnosis of infections and determining immune responses and vaccine 
efficacy. Increase the capacity for pathogen subtyping, and genomic surveillance for 
early warning and investigations of climate -related outbreaks. Develop rapid, portable, 
and affordable standardised diagnostic tools that can withstand climate extremes. 
 
• Increase the understanding of the factors that strengthen health resilience to climate 
change at the individual, local and societal levels. Investigate the role of individual 
mechanisms, community resilience and local solutions in mitigating the health impacts 
of climate change and related environmental degradation.  
International cooperation, in particular with LMICs, is strongly encouraged. 
In order to maximise synergies and increase the impact of the projects, all proposals selected 
for funding from this topic will form a cluster and be required to participate in common 
networking and joint activities. Guidance on the potential activities to be developed can be 
obtained by consulting the clusters of projects ongoing under the Environment, Climate and 
Health research portfolio89. 
Proposals should make sure that relevant activities, outcomes and outputs are shared with the 
European Climate and Health Observatory 90 through the cluster that will be formed after the 
approval of the proposals. Actions’ results should also contribute to future European Climate 
Risk Assessments. When relevant proposals should build on the outcomes of the projects that 
are part of the European Climate-Health Cluster91. 
Proposals are encouraged to consider, where relevant, the data, expertise and services offered 
by European research infrastructures92 in the environment, climate and health domain. 
This topic requires the effective contribution of social sciences and humanities (SSH) 
disciplines and the involvement of SSH experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of 
relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce meaningful and significant effects enhancing the 
societal impact of the related research activities. 
Applicants envisaging to include clinical studies 93 should provide details of their clinical 
studies in the dedicated annex using the template provided in the submission system.