HORIZON-HLTH-2026-02-DISEASE-12: European Partnership on Rare Diseases 
(ERDERA) (Phase 2) 
Call: Partnerships in Health (2026/1) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
91.30 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 91.30 million. 
Type of Action Programme Co-fund Action 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The proposal must be submitted by the coordinator of the consortium 
funded under topic HORIZON-HLTH-2023-DISEASE-07-01: 
“European Partnership on Rare Diseases”. This eligibility condition is 
without prejudice to the possibility to include additional partners. 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in the 
United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. Because 
the US contribution will be considered for the calculation of the EU 
contribution to the partnership, the concerned consortium of research 
funders from eligible EU Members States and Associated Countries 
must expressly agree to this participation. 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or as 
an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation and 
submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 4 
(Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
 
exceptions apply: 
The evaluation will take into account the existing context and the scope 
of the initial evaluation as relevant, and related obligations enshrined in 
the grant agreement. 
If the proposal is successful, the next stage of the procedure will be grant 
agreement amendment preparations. 
If the outcome of amendment preparations is an award decision, the 
coordinator of the consortium funded under topic HORIZON -HLTH-
2023-DISEASE-07-01: “European Partnership on Rare Diseases” will 
be invited to submit an amendment to the grant agreement, on behalf of 
the beneficiaries. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
This action is intended to be implemented in the form of an amendment 
of the grant agreement concluded pursuant to Article 24(2) of the 
Horizon Europe Regulation. 
For the additional activities covered by this action: 
• The funding rate is 50% of the eligible costs. This is justified by 
the pooling of proposers' in -kind contributions and in -house 
activities and by the nature of activities to be performed: in 
addition of joint calls, highly integrative activities (EU clinical 
trial preparedness, training, patients’ empowerment activities etc.) 
contributing to enhance the rare disease research and innovation 
ecosystem in the EU and Associated Countries, and beyond. 
• Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties 
(FSTP). The support to third parties can only be provided in the 
form of grants. As a co -funded European Partnership, providing 
financial support to third parties is a core activity of this action in 
order to achieve its objectives. Consequently, the EUR 60 000 
threshold laid down in Article 207 of Financial Regulation (EU, 
Euratom) 2024/2509 does not apply. The maximum amount of 
FSTP that may be awarded to any single third party for the 
duration of the partnership is set at EUR 10.00 million. This 
ceiling is justified by the fact that FSTP is a primary activity of 
this action, by its expected duration of 7 -10 years (exceeding a 
standard project lifespan), and by the extensive experience gained 
under predecessor partnerships. This ceiling is also justified by the 
fact that research on rare diseases, in particular clinical research, is 
complex and costly to put in place due to the scarcity, for each 
disease, of patients, of knowledge, of clinicians and of researchers, 
and by the request, if possible, to group diseases for research 
purposes, in order to tackle several diseases out of the estimated 6-
8.000 rare diseases. However, if the objectives of the action would 
otherwise be impossible or overly difficult (and duly justified in 
the proposal) the maximum amount may be higher. 
• The starting date of the grant awarded under this topic may be as 
of the submission date of the application. Applicants must justify 
the need for a retroactive starting date in their application. Costs 
incurred from the starting date of the action may be considered 
eligible (and will be reflected in the entry into force date of the 
amendment to the grant agreement). 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Total indicative 
budget 
The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 91.3 million committed 
in annual instalments over the two years, 2026 and 2027 (EUR 48.7 
million from the 2026 budget and EUR 42.6 million from the 2027 
budget). 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Tackling diseases and reducing disease 
burden”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim to deliver results that are directed 
at, tailored towards and contributing to all the following expected outcomes: 
• The EU is reinforced as an internationally recognised driver of research and innovation 
in Rare Diseases (RD) and thereby substantially contributing to the achievement of the 
Sustainable Development Goals related to rare diseases. 
• Research funders align, adopt and implement their RD research policies allowing for the 
optimal generation and translation of knowledge into meaningful health products and 
interventions responding to the needs of people living with a rare disease across Europe 
and globally. 
• The RD research community at large benefit from and use an improved comprehensive 
knowledge framework and cross-border FAIR191 data access and analysis, including rare 
diseases registries, by integrating the EU, national/regional data and information 
infrastructures to improve translational research. 
• People living with a rare disease, including those from underrepresented communities, 
benefit from a more timely, equitable access to innovative, sustainable and high -quality 
 
healthcare including novel diagnosis and treatments, taking stock of highly integrated 
research and healthcare systems. 
• Researchers, innovators -as well as people living with a rare disease and their advocates 
(as co -creators)- effectively constitute and operate into an integrated research and 
innovation ecosystem to deliver cost-effective diagnosis and treatments. 
• Public and private actors, including civil society (e.g. Non -Governmental Organisations, 
charities), establish coordinated and efficient multi -stakeholder collaborations at EU and 
national (including regional) levels, allowing for more effective clinical research, for 
example aiming at improved success rates of therapeutic development.  
Scope: This topic targets an action under Article 24(2) HE Regulation aiming to add 
additional activities to existing grant agreements, together with additional partners (if 
relevant) that would deliver on those activities. The award of a grant to continue the 
partnership in accordance with this call should be based on a proposal submitted by the 
coordinator of the consortium funded under topic HORIZON -HLTH-2023-DISEASE-07-01: 
“European Partnership on Rare Diseases” and the additional activities (which may include 
additional partners) to be funded by the grant should be subject to an evaluation. Taking into 
account that the present action is a continuation of the topic HORIZON -HLTH-2023-
DISEASE-07-01: “European Partnership on Rare Diseases” and foresees an amendment to an 
existing grant agreement, the proposal should present the additional activities (including 
additional partners) to be covered by the award primarily in terms of grant agreement 
revisions. The existing action, the “European Rare Diseases Research Alliance” (ERDERA) 
can only reasonably be enhanced and enlarged on the basis of the existing consortium 192, as 
the co -funded framework established cannot simply be replaced without significant 
disruption, given the top -quality, long-term expertise and wide coverage of the beneficiaries 
comprising this consortium. 
The proposal should thus present the specific additional activities (including, if relevant, 
additional partners) foreseen for the second instalment of the partnership. The partnership 
should continue to contribute to priorities of the communication “On effective, accessible and 
resilient health systems” (COM(2014) 215 final) 193 , the “Communication from the 
Commission on enabling the digital transformation of health and care in the Digital Single 
Market; empowering citizens and building a healthier society” (COM(2018) 233 final) 194, the 
"Council conclusions on the Future of the European Health Union: A Europe that cares, 
prepares and protects" (9900/24) 195 and support the objectives of the EU4Health Programme 
(2021-2027)196. 
 
This partnership should also contribute to achieving the objectives of the Pharmaceutical 
Strategy for Europe 197, in terms of fulfilling unmet medical needs and catalysing the clinical 
development of medicines for rare diseases (i.e. “orphan medicinal products”) and ensuring 
that the benefits of research and innovation reach patients in the EU and the Associated 
Countries. Moreover, the partnership is expected to contribute and align with the objectives of 
the Directive 2911/24/EU on the application of patients’ rights in cross -border healthcare198 
and of the European Health Data Space (EHDS)199. 
Thanks to its capacity to bring together different stakeholders (e.g. research funders, health 
authorities, healthcare institutions, innovators, policymakers), the partnership will strengthen 
the European Research Area and consolidate the European research and innovation ecosystem 
with a critical mass of resources, and implement a long -term Strategic Research and 
Innovation Agenda (SRIA)200. 
The co-funded European Partnership on Rare Diseases should be implemented based on the 
priorities identified in the SRIA and through a joint programme of activities ranging from 
coordinating and funding transnational and clinical research to highly integrative and 
community-driven ‘in -house’ activities such as innovation strategies for the efficient 
exploitation of research results, EU clinical trial preparedness activities, optimisation of 
research infrastructures 201 and resources, including networking, training and dissemination 
activities. To this end, proposals are expected to build on the first phase of this partnership 
and should be structured along the following main objectives: 
• Launch joint transnational calls for RD research and innovation actions, aligned with 
SRIA priorities, to fund patient -need-driven research across Europe, ensuring effective 
cross-border collaboration and scalability, while demonstrating short, medium and long -
term impact and value creation through financial support to third parties and a rigorous 
monitoring strategy of research outputs. 
• Further establish, strengthen and develop the different components of a European 
Clinical Research Network (CRN) to boost clinical trial readiness and capacity to readily 
implement well-coordinated multi-national clinical studies on rare diseases, building on 
the European Reference Networks (ERNs). The partnership is expected to showcase the 
CRN’s contribution to the cost -effective therapeutic development and decrease in 
diagnostic timelines linked with improvement in health outcomes ensuring durable 
collaboration among research, clinical, and regulatory actors. 
 
• Advance and consolidate the capacity building of the RD data ecosystem by supporting 
interoperable and/or federated cross -border access and analysis of FAIR research and 
healthcare data, including rare disease registries, ensuring ongoing their usability more 
efficient translational and clinical research, including regulatory science. The relevant 
European research infrastructures in the area of health should be exploited for available 
services, expertise and digital tools for the management and analyses of FAIR health 
data, as appropriate. 
• Integrate basic, pre -clinical, clinical and implementation research to streamline the 
Research and Innovation (R&I) continuum and minimise redundancies, ensuring lasting 
impact on the quality of life of the people living with a rare disease while strengthening 
systemic efficiency and cost-effectiveness. To that end, the partnership should mobilise a 
significant investment to spur innovation, by aligning regional, national and European 
R&I priorities and improving EU competitiveness in R&I. 
• Support research and innovation across key intervention areas (prevention, diagnosis, 
treatment), and promote the sustainable uptake of existing health innovations in clinical 
practice through coordinated training, implementation research, and active stakeholder 
engagement. 
• Contribute to and align with the International Rare Disease Research Consortium 
(IRDiRC) 202  to reinforce Europe’s global leadership, ensure policy coherence, and 
sustain long-term strategic alignment beyond the lifetime of the partnership. To that end, 
an optimised assessment of the European contribution to IRDiRC would be beneficial to 
ensure complementarity and avoid overlaps.  
This topic requires the effective contribution of social sciences and humanities (SSH) 
disciplines and the involvement of SSH experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of 
relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce meaningful and significant effects enhancing the 
societal impact of the related research activities. 
Collaboration with the European Commission's Joint Research Centre (JRC) should be 
considered to materialise the sharing of (meta)data regarding registries for rare diseases, 
exchanging data for clinical studies and research based on a unified pseudonymisation tool 
provided by the European Platform on Rare Disease Registration (EU RD Platform) and 
related tools and services, as well as in other areas of mutual interest, such as training and 
capacity building.