HORIZON-HLTH-2026-01-ENVHLTH-04: Towards climate resilient, prepared and 
carbon neutral populations and healthcare systems 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
7.00 and 8.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 45.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in the 
United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 4 
(Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
In order to maximise synergies and increase the impact of the projects, 
all proposals selected for funding from this topic will form a cluster and 
be required to participate in common networking and joint activities (and 
in determining modalities for their implementation and the specific 
responsibilities of projects). These activities will be included in a 
dedicated work package, having sufficient budget allocated to it (around 
2% of the total requested budget). Depending on the scope of proposals 
selected for funding, these activities may include: 
• Attendance of regular joint meetings (e.g. common kick -off 
meeting and annual meetings). 
• Periodic report of joint activities (delivered at each reporting 
period). 
• Common dissemination and communication activities (which may 
include, for example: a common dissemination and 
communication strategy, web portal and visual identity, brochure, 
newsletters). 
• Common Data Management Strategy and Common Policy 
Strategy (including joint policy briefs). 
• Thematic workshops/trainings on issues of common interest. 
• Working groups on topics of common interest (e.g. data 
management and exchange, communication and dissemination, 
science-policy link, scientific synergies). 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 94. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Living and working in a health -promoting 
environment”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim to deliver results that are 
directed at, tailored towards and contributing to most of the following expected outcomes: 
• The healthcare sector is supported with new technological developments and 
frameworks for greening, decarbonising and adapting to climate change, thus also 
contributing to protect biodiversity and ecosystem services. 
• Governments, public health authorities, healthcare providers and practitioners, social 
care services and civil society have access to the best available evidence on the health 
costs and benefits (including co -benefits) of climate adaptation and mitigation actions 
and interventions. 
• Policymakers and public authorities develop environment, climate change and health 
policies and interventions based on robust frameworks and incorporating innovative, 
inclusive and accessible solutions and technologies. 
• Governments and public health authorities are supported in their adoption of robust 
frameworks and interventions to tackle societal challenges linked to the health impacts 
of climatic and environmental factors. 
• Populations are empowered and equipped with knowledge, tools and resources to adopt 
health-protective behaviours and adapt to health-related climate risks.  
 
Scope: The health sector accounts for nearly 5% of global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
and generates significant demands for energy and materials, as well as dangerous polluting 
streams. Proactive mitigation efforts in the health sector can significantly reduce GHG 
emissions and pollution, saving many lives and contributing to relieve pressures on 
biodiversity and ecosystem services. However, specific mechanisms for emission reductions 
in the health sector remain less defined compared to those in other sectors. 
At the same time, the climate crisis subjects healthcare systems to unprecedented pressures 
(e.g. on infrastructure, workforce, overall systems) while simultaneously having to respond to 
increasing healthcare needs. To reduce pressure in healthcare systems and generally improve 
public health, it is crucial to design inclusive and accessible interventions that prevent the 
health impacts of climate change and related environmental degradation, increase resilience 
and preparedness of individuals and communities and foster the adoption of health -protective 
behaviours. 
Research activities under this topic should generate evidence on the opportunities and health 
co-benefits of mitigation in the health sector as well as foster the development of low -carbon 
medical technologies and digital solutions for the sector. Proposals should also support the 
design of effective, scalable, cost-effective and transferable interventions and frameworks that 
can be applied across a wide range of healthcare settings and/or in population, community and 
societal contexts and involving, when relevant, public and patient engagement. Proposals can 
consider both living and working environments. 
More specifically research actions under this topic should include some of the following 
activities: 
• Develop and/or pilot effective, inclusive, accessible and impactful interventions to 
address the impact of climate change in healthcare systems and/or in health outcomes 
across populations, sectors and regions. These interventions should aim at reducing 
health vulnerability and building health resilience. Consider where relevant the 
involvement of local communities and/or end users in the development of these 
interventions. 
• Develop methodologies and analytical tools to assess the effectiveness and cost -benefit 
of health-related climate change adaptation interventions. 
• Generate evidence on the health co -benefits of climate change mitigation and propose 
frameworks to quantify the magnitude of their impacts. 
• Develop harmonised frameworks, assessment metrics and reporting methods to evaluate 
alternative mitigation strategies and interventions, as well as harmonised methodologies 
to assess the cost-benefit of different mitigation measures. 
• Explore and estimate the impact of preventive healthcare and lifestyle practices for 
mitigating the impacts of climate change in the health sector and increasing the 
resilience and preparedness of communities. 
• Propose best practices to enhance the climate resilience of healthcare infrastructures, 
healthcare professionals and relevant supply chains and logistics. 
• Explore and assess the role of primary care in increasing the preparedness of 
communities and reduce the health impacts of climate change. 
• Develop low -carbon medical technologies (including medical devices) and digital 
solutions to reduce the emissions of GHG and pollutants (to air, water and soil) of 
healthcare practices and their supply chains. Health technology assessment activities to 
evaluate new or alternative low carbon medical solutions may be included where 
appropriate.  
Funded projects under this topic should consider the scalability and transferability of the 
developed solutions to ensure that any knowledge, frameworks, methodologies, pilots, etc., 
developed are actionable and applicable across different healthcare settings and community 
contexts. Proposals should also consider the use of implementation science approaches to 
support the relevance and broad applicability of the research outcomes. Proposals should take 
into consideration the broader socio -economic challenges faced by healthcare systems (e.g. 
funding challenges, workforce shortages, population ageing and increase of chronic diseases). 
Additionally, solutions and interventions proposed under this topic should consider the Do No 
Significant Harm principle. 
In order to maximise synergies and increase the impact of the projects, all proposals selected 
for funding from this topic will form a cluster and be required to participate in common 
networking and joint activities. Guidance on the potential activities to be developed can be 
obtained by consulting the clusters of projects ongoing under the Environment, Climate and 
Health research portfolio95. 
International cooperation is encouraged. 
Proposals should make sure that relevant activities, outcomes and outputs are shared with the 
European Climate and Health Observatory 96 through the cluster that will be formed after the 
approval of the proposals. When relevant proposals should build on the outcomes of the 
projects that are part of the European Climate-Health Cluster97. 
Proposals are encouraged to consider, where relevant, the data, expertise and services offered 
by European research infrastructures98 in the environment and health domain. 
This topic requires the effective contribution of social sciences and humanities (SSH) 
disciplines and the involvement of SSH experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of 
relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce meaningful and significant effects enhancing the 
societal impact of the related research activities. 
 
Applicants envisaging to include clinical studies 99 should provide details of their clinical 
studies in the dedicated annex using the template provided in the submission system.