HORIZON-HLTH-2027-01-STAYHLTH-01: Addressing disabilities through the life 
course to support independent living and inclusion 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2027/1) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
6.00 and 8.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 39.30 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in the 
United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 
4 (Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 72. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Staying healthy in a rapidly changing 
society”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim to deliver results that are directed 
at, tailored towards and contributing to all the following expected outcomes: 
• Persons with disabilities are empowered and can enjoy their rights to live independently, 
participate in society and be included in the community on an equal basis with others. 
• The scientific community develops innovative solutions with a focus on removing 
barriers faced by persons with disabilities to live independently and they are provided 
with community support services where they live in the community. 
• Policymakers, health and care services, social and service providers, disability 
organisations, funders, the scientific community, and other relevant bodies are informed 
of the research advances and best practices addressing the health and needs of persons 
with disabilities to support them living independently and being included in society.  
Scope: The focus of this topic is human -centred on persons with long -term disabilities 73 -
physical, mental, intellectual or sensory - aiming at supporting independent living across the 
life-course from a health perspective. Persons with disabilities have an equal right to live 
independently and be included in the community. Independent living requires a differentiated 
landscape of quality, accessible, person-centred and affordable, community- and family-based 
services comprising personal assistance, medical and social care and interventions by social 
 
workers, thereby facilitating everyday activities and providing choice to persons with 
disabilities and their families74. 
The objective of this topic is to explore new ways to promote independent living and 
inclusion in society of persons with disabilities, reducing to the maximum possible the impact 
of barriers faced in their daily lives, and supporting the transition from institutions to living in 
the community while addressing all -encompassing aspects of personal support, such as 
community transformation, service provision, assistive and accessible technologies and 
environments. 
Research actions under this topic should address at least three of the following areas: 
• Health related research addressing disabilities that stem from health conditions and 
health conditions associated to disabilities. Thus, research may look into finding the 
causes of the disease(s) leading to the disability and/or disease treatment with the 
purpose of supporting independent living. Innovative solutions could also include among 
others diagnoses, medicines, treatments, protocols, technologies, digital tools, low -tech 
solutions, etc. helping to improve the autonomy of persons with disabilities. 
• Children with disabilities from the perinatal period, and/or young people with disabilities 
transitioning to adulthood, and/or older persons 75 . Proposals should foster ways to 
improve autonomy and quality of life. 
• Access to habilitation and rehabilitation services, including psychological rehabilitation 
and innovative rehabilitation with assistive technologies when appropriate, to increase, 
maintain, substitute or improve functional capabilities of persons with disabilities or for, 
alleviation and compensation of impairments, activity limitations or participation 
restrictions contributing to increasing independence. 
• Prevention of disabilities through the life-course. Different aspects that could have an 
impact on persons with disabilities may be addressed, such as gender, age, socio -
economic background, ethnicity, detection of risks factors leading to a loss of autonomy, 
the risk of overweight/obesity and related co -morbidities (e.g. diabetes, cardiovascular 
diseases), hospitalisation, nutrition (e.g. mother and child nutrition from pregnancy), 
high level of inactivity/sedentary lifestyle and related co -morbidities (e.g. frailty), 
physical activity/sports, screen -time dependency, smoking, drug use 76 , alcohol use, 
stress, psychiatric and somatic diseases, loneliness and/or isolation, etc. 
• Conditions for a successful transition from institutions to living in the community, 
including different tools to achieve it, such as needs assessments, service provision, 
budget and resources, management plans, monitoring, quality control, etc. Community 
support services to live independently may include personal assistance or support for 
 
decision-making, and/or disability inclusive and accessible community -based services -
medical, technological, digital or other supportive initiatives - ensuring prevention of 
isolation or segregation and supporting deinstitutionalisation. Special attention is to be 
paid to children and young people transitioning to adulthood and older persons to 
facilitate they remain living at their homes77. 
• Innovative solutions, care models and strategies for high quality person -centred, 
accessible and targeted social and healthcare services to prevent barriers and to support 
independent living, including if possible, self -care to empower persons with disabilities, 
as well as different choices of care across the life -course. For many persons with 
disabilities, the lack of support and care services and insufficient support for families and 
unavailability of personal assistance undermines their independence and inclusion in the 
community.  
Data collection is essential to understand the living situation of persons with disabilities and 
remains a challenge to collect data disaggregated per type of disability, sex, and age. In 
addition, data collected often lacks comparability as it follows different definitions in each 
Member State and Associated Country. Thus, applicants are encouraged to ensure harmonised 
data collection by using Eurostat standards and existing international sets of questions in their 
areas of research. 
Persons with disabilities should be involved in the research through their representative 
organisations as actors in the research process. Research can also involve their families, 
friends, colleagues, supporters and carers and other service providers. Policymakers and 
public authorities, social services, and civil society organisations, could also be considered. 
The relevant European research infrastructures 78 in the area of health may be exploited for 
available digital tools and services for dataset creation, standardisation, data discovery, secure 
access, management, visualization, harmonization, analysis and other functions as 
appropriate. 
This topic requires the effective contribution of social sciences and humanities (SSH) 
disciplines and the involvement of SSH experts, organisations as well as the inclusion of 
relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce meaningful and significant effects enhancing the 
societal impact of the related research activities. 
Projects are also encouraged to explore potential complementarities with projects funded 
under topic HORIZON -CL2-2025-01-TRANSFO-09: “Good practices for increased 
autonomy of persons with disabilities, including physical, mental, intellectual and sensory 
disabilities” and topic HORIZON -HLTH-2025-03-STAYHLTH-01-two-stage: “Improving 
the quality of life of persons with intellectual disabilities and their families”. 
 
Applicants envisaging to include clinical studies 79 should provide details of their clinical 
studies in the dedicated annex using the template provided in the submission system. 
 
