HORIZON-HLTH-2026-01-TOOL-06: Support to European Research Area (ERA) 
action on accelerating New Approach Methodologies (NAMs) to advance biomedical 
research and testing of medicinal products and medical devices 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 2.90 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 2.90 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, legal entities established in the 
United States of America may exceptionally participate as a beneficiary 
or affiliated entity, and are eligible to receive Union funding. 
Coordinators of projects must be legal entities established in an EU 
Member State or Associated Country. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or as 
an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 
4 (Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 371. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Developing and using new tools, 
technologies and digital solutions for a healthy society”. To that end, proposals under this 
topic should aim to deliver results that are directed at, tailored towards and contributing to all 
the following expected outcomes: 
• Member States and relevant stakeholders identify priority areas where New Approach 
Methodologies (NAMs) and infrastructures are most needed and expected to have the 
highest short- to medium-term impact. 
 
• Member States and other stakeholders jointly support the validation and qualification of 
a limited set of NAMs that are intended to be accepted and implemented in regulatory 
testing of medicinal products and medical devices. 
• Member States and other stakeholders develop common education and training 
programmes based on best practices identified in European and non -European countries 
to better inform researchers and regulators on NAMs and on the application of the 3Rs 
principles372. 
• Member States and other stakeholders implement a harmonised NAM openness and 
awareness programme that improves open access to NAMs protocols and results of 
animal experiments. It also provides guidance to harmonise the awareness of NAMs for 
ethical committee members, reviewers, and regulators, based on best practices in the 
participating Member States. The programme should propose concrete actions to 
increase the confidence of regulators in NAMs including a better understanding of the 
potential and limitations of NAMs.  
Scope: This topic aims to coordinate and develop the new European Research Area (ERA) 
policy action to accelerate, through an aligned and coordinated approach across Member 
States and Associated Countries, the development, validation/qualification, acceptance, and 
uptake of NAMs in biomedical research and regulatory testing of medicinal products and 
medical devices as part of the ERA Policy Agenda 2025-2027373. 
The ERA action should establish an EU -wide forum that brings together relevant ministries, 
regulatory agencies, research funding organisations, academia, industry (pharmaceutical and 
medical technology), Contract Research Organisations (CROs), small and medium -sized 
enterprises (SMEs) 374 , and startups to harmonise policies and strategies for NAMs 
development and implementation. 
The selected proposal should be coordinated by any active participant to the ERA action to 
ensure consistency with ERA action policy objectives. It should contribute to the 
implementation of the following themes of the four thematic Working Groups (WGs) of the 
ERA action: 
WG1: Development of NAMs and common European infrastructures. This WG identifies 
opportunities for the development and integration of NAMs and the establishment of 
supporting infrastructures. Its focus spans specific disease or biological areas and safety, 
quality, and efficacy assessment endpoints for medicinal products and medical devices. The 
WG provides insight and suggests priorities to governments and industry for the further 
coordinated efforts to leverage promising development of NAMs, taking into consideration 
 
the complementarity of scientific strengths, funding priorities and available expertise in the 
different Member States and regions. 
WG2: Validation, acceptance, and uptake of NAMs. The WG defines optimal criteria for 
NAMs to facilitate their uptake in the contexts of basic and applied biomedical research, and 
their acceptance for the regulatory assessment and eventual approval of medicinal products 
and medical devices within defined contexts of use. It proposes priorities for the validation 
and qualification of NAMs. Member States and pharma/MedTech industry take the decision 
to jointly support the validation/qualification of certain NAMs that are sufficiently mature for 
acceptance and uptake in regulatory testing of medicinal products and medical devices. 
WG3: Education and training. The WG maps existing education and training programmes on 
NAMs and the 3Rs principles and assesses their quality and outreach. The WG makes 
suggestions to Member States based on the best practices identified for the joint development 
of high -quality education and training modules on NAMs and the application of the 3Rs 
principles in close partnership with education directors at knowledge institutes. 
WG4: Openness and awareness. The WG develops common policies to improve the openness 
and quality of research, including open access to available protocols on NAMs, and 
facilitating the publication of results from NAMs and animal experiments, even if these are 
negative or neutral (or historic, if feasible and appropriate), to avoid unnecessary duplication 
of animal testing or development of non -valid NAMs. It considers strategies for sharing best 
practices to make sure that different ethical committees, funding assessment committees, 
reviewers, and regulators have a similar level of awareness regarding the latest scientific 
advancements in available NAMs. It proposes actions to enhance the confidence of regulators 
in validated and qualified NAMs. The WG also identifies opportunities for raising awareness 
among civil society and patients regarding the biomedical research, drug discovery and 
development process. 
The European Commission's Joint Research Centre (JRC) may contribute to the proposal 
selected for funding, particularly with activities on innovative in vitro biotechnologies.