HORIZON-HLTH-2026-04-CARE-04: Enhancing and enlarging the European 
Partnership on Personalised Medicine (EP PerMEd) (Top-up) 
Call: Partnerships in Health (2026/3) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 9.80 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 9.80 million. 
 
Type of Action Programme Co-fund Action 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The proposal must be submitted by the coordinator of the consortium 
funded under topic HORIZON -HLTH-2023-CARE-08-01: “European 
Partnership on Personalised Medicine”. This eligibility condition is 
without prejudice to the possibility to include additional partners. 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in the 
United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. Because 
the US contribution will be considered for the calculation of the EU 
contribution to the partnership, the concerned consortium of research 
funders from eligible EU Members States and Associated Countries 
must expressly agree to this participation. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 4 
(Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The evaluation will take into account the existing context and the scope 
of the initial evaluation as relevant, and related obligations enshrined in 
the grant agreement. 
If the proposal is successful, the next stage of the procedure will be grant 
agreement amendment preparations. 
If the outcome of amendment preparations is an award decision, the 
coordinator of the consortium funded under topic HORIZON -HLTH-
2023-CARE-08-01: “European Partnership on Personalised Medicine” 
will be invited to submit an amendment to the grant agreement, on 
behalf of the beneficiaries. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
This action is intended to be implemented in the form of an amendment 
of the grant agreement concluded pursuant to Article 24(2) of the 
Horizon Europe Regulation. 
For the additional activities covered by this action: 
• The funding rate is 30% of the eligible costs. 
• Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties 
(FSTP). The support to third parties can only be provided in the 
form of grants. As a co -funded European Partnership, providing 
financial support to third parties (FSTP) is a core activity of this 
action in order to achieve its objectives. Consequently, the EUR 
60 000 threshold laid down in Article 207 of Financial Regulation 
(EU, Euratom) 2024/2509 does not apply. The maximum amount 
of FSTP that may be awarded to any single third party for the 
duration of the partnership is set at EUR 10.00 million. This 
ceiling is justified by the fact that FSTP is a primary activity of 
this action, by its expected duration of 7 -10 years (exceeding a 
standard project lifespan), and by the extensive experience gained 
under predecessor partnerships. This ceiling is also justified by the 
fact that personalised medicine being at the forefront of medical 
approaches, requires the use of state -of-the-art technologies and 
tailored clinical trials which are usually expensi ve. However, if 
the objectives of the action would otherwise be impossible or 
overly difficult (and duly justified in the proposal) the maximum 
amount may be higher. 
• The starting date of the grant awarded under this topic may be as 
of the submission date of the application. Applicants must justify 
the need for a retroactive starting date in their application. Costs 
incurred from the starting date of the action may be considered 
eligible (and will be reflected in the entry into force date of the 
amendment to the grant agreement). 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Total indicative 
budget 
The total indicative budget for the duration of the co -funded partnership 
is EUR 109.8 million. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Ensuring equal access to innovative, 
sustainable, and high -quality healthcare”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim 
to deliver results that are directed at, tailored towards and contributing to all the following 
expected outcomes: 
• European countries and regions, along with international partners, are engaged in 
enhanced collaborative research efforts for the development of innovative personalised 
medicine approaches regarding prevention, diagnosis and treatment. 
• Healthcare authorities, policymakers and other stakeholders develop evidence -based 
strategies and policies for the uptake of personalised medicine in national or regional 
healthcare systems. 
• Health industries, policymakers and other stakeholders have access to efficient measures 
and investments to allow swift transfer of research and innovation into market. 
• Health industries and other stakeholders can accelerate the uptake of personalised 
medicine through the adoption of innovative business models. 
• Healthcare authorities, policymakers and other stakeholders use improved knowledge 
and understanding of the health and costs benefits of personalised medicine to optimise 
healthcare and make healthcare systems more sustainable. 
• Healthcare providers and professionals improve health outcomes, prevent diseases and 
maintain population health through the implementation of personalised medicine. 
• Stronger and highly connected local/regional ecosystems of stakeholders, including 
innovators, are in place and facilitate the uptake of successful innovations in 
personalised medicine, thus improving healthcare outcomes and strengthening European 
competitiveness. 
• Citizens, patients and healthcare professionals have a better knowledge of personalised 
medicine and are better involved in its implementation. 
• Stakeholders cooperate better and establish a network of national and regional 
knowledge hubs for personalised medicine.  
Scope: This topic targets an action under Article 24(2) HE Regulation aiming to add 
additional activities to existing grant agreements, together with additional partners that would 
deliver on those activities. The award of a grant to continue the partnership in accordance 
with this call should be based on a proposal submitted by the coordinator of the consortium 
funded under topic HORIZON -HLTH-2023-CARE-08-01: “European Partnership on 
Personalised Medicine” and the additional activities and additional partners to be funded by 
the grant should be subject to an evaluation. Taking into account that the present action is a 
continuation of the topic HORIZON -HLTH-2023-CARE-08-01: “European Partnership on 
Personalised Medicine” and foresees an amendment to an existing grant agreement, the 
proposal should present the additional activities (including additional partners) to be covered 
by the award primarily in terms of grant agreement revisions. Partners from countries recently 
associated to Horizon Europe from 2024 onwards (2024 included) are particularly welcome. 
The existing action, the “European Partnership for Personalised Medicine” (EP PerMed) can 
only reasonably be enhanced and enlarged on the basis of the existing consortium 339, as the 
co-funded framework established cannot simply be replaced without significant disruption, 
 
given the top -quality, long-term expertise and wide coverage of the beneficiaries comprising 
this consortium. 
The additional activities to be performed by applicants under this topic should consist of 
several of the following: 
• Organisation of activities or tools according to their expertise and interests, e.g.:        
 Personalised Medicine (PM) Innovation related activities and tools, business and 
entrepreneur relations and support, case studies and guides.    
 PM public health and social care, people’s engagement, activities to support health 
system’s ability to turn scientific discoveries into new or improved treatments and 
services, support the scientific community to tackle complex health and social care 
challenges, international outreach.    
 PM and diversity, underrepresented populations, gender aspects, health data and 
knowledge mobilisation activities, PM and rare diseases.    
 PM related genomics, expert and societal exchange on genomics, opportunities by 
genomics for innovations and economic growth.   
• Contribution to the design and implementation of the specific topics and features of the 
Transnational Joint Calls as of 2026 to which new partners will contribute national 
commitments. 
• Specific, tailored contributions to other EP PerMed calls such as: Fast Track, Venture 
Creation Programme, Networking, Twinning calls, Call for surveys, Education calls, etc. 
• Organisation of specific EP PerMed events, such as in -situ visits (Work Package 5 - 
WP5), summer schools (WP3/4). 
• Contribution to the development and dissemination of strategic documents in additional 
geographical areas, for example the Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda (SRIA) 
updates. 
• Development and implementation of other new PM tailored activities within the related 
WPs.