HORIZON-HLTH-2026-01-DISEASE-09: Multisectoral approach to tackle chronic 
non-communicable diseases: implementation research maximising collaboration and 
coordination with sectors and in settings beyond the healthcare system (GACD) 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 9.80 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in the 
United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 
4 (Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 169. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Tackling diseases and reducing disease 
burden”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim to deliver results that are directed 
at, tailored towards and contributing to some of the following expected outcomes: 
• Researchers, policymakers, healthcare - and non -healthcare-related stakeholders and 
authorities in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs)170 and/or those in high-income 
countries (HICs) serving disadvantaged populations have access to improved insights 
and evidence on how to maximise collaboration and coordination with sectors and in 
settings beyond the healthcare system in the context of Non -Communicable Diseases 
(NCDs). 
• Researchers, policymakers, healthcare - and non -healthcare-related stakeholders and 
authorities have an improved understanding how the proposed interventions draw on 
collaborative multisectoral engagement and utilise the different settings in which people 
are educated, work and live, to expand efforts to reduce risks, prevent, manage and 
control NCDs. 
 
• Communities, relevant stakeholders from different sectors and authorities are fully 
engaged in implementing and taking up interventions that tackle the growing burden of 
NCDs through actions in sectors and settings outside the traditional health system and its 
facilities health -related outcomes, improve quality of life across the life course and 
extend healthy life expectancy.  
Scope: The Commission is a member of the Global Alliance for Chronic Diseases (GACD)171. 
The GACD specifically addresses NCDs and supports implementation research 172 to improve 
health outcomes. This topic is launched in concertation with the other GACD members 
(international funding agencies) and aligned with the 11th GACD call. 
Besides health -related determinants, the burden of NCDs is also driven by structural and 
social inequities, population ageing, the effects of globalisation on marketing and trade, diet 
and activity, commercial and economic determinants of health, rapid urbanisation and climate 
change, factors over which a conventional healthcare-oriented system has little sway. There is 
a need for a comprehensive approach, involving sectors outside of health, to meet the global 
targets that governments have agreed upon to protect people from chronic NCDs. Tackling 
chronic NCDs most effectively therefore requires engagement and coordinated policy 
development within and across many government departments, including education, 
workplace, environment, social systems, housing, transportation, agriculture, food industry 
and nutrition, leisure and culture. 
The aim of this topic is to fund implementation research focused on strategies to tackle the 
growing burden of NCDs through actions in sectors and settings outside the traditional health 
system173 and its facilities (with or without the involvement of the healthcare system) to attain 
equitable health -related outcomes or influence health determinants for people living in 
LMICs, and/or underserved populations in HICs. 
Proposals can focus on more than one setting and/or include cross -sectoral approaches, 
involving both health and non -health settings to expand efforts to reduce risks, prevent, 
manage and control NCDs. Safety is a major concern in non -health settings, and proposals 
should ensure any risks and safety considerations are addressed. 
The choice of intervention(s) 174  and provision of existing evidence of the intervention’s 
effectiveness, cost-effectiveness, sustainability, scalability and potential for long -term health 
and other impacts should be justified (and in what context this evidence has been generated). 
 
The majority of evidence -based interventions implemented outside of the health sector focus 
on prevention of NCDs: relatively few focus on strategies for management of these chronic 
conditions, and a limited number are implemented in LMIC contexts or underserved 
communities. Therefore, it may be important to undertake formative research as a part of the 
proposal to support readiness for implementation. 
Applicants should explore the implementation of proposed intervention(s) for a selected study 
population(s) based in one or more LMICs, and/or underserved populations experiencing 
health disparities, including Indigenous populations, in HICs, considering the unique social, 
political, economic, and cultural context(s) in which the study will take place 175. Applicants 
should justify why any adaptation will not compromise the known effectiveness of the 
selected intervention(s). 
Proposals should address all the following implementation research activities176: 
• Clearly describe the implementation research methodology, including the statistical 
design, and provide a rationale for the implementation strategy/ies to be explored (in 
light of the context), the community/population group(s) to benefit, the settings and 
sectors involved (and how these should be engaged), the current state of the art and how 
the proposal improves on this, and, if used, the theories, models and/or frameworks 
underpinning the research. 
• Have an appropriate strategy for measuring implementation research outcomes and real -
world effectiveness outcomes and indicators. 
• Specifically address issues of equitable implementation to ensure interventions reach the 
populations that need them the most. 
 
sector policy introduction, to tackle relevant social and/or structural determinants of NCDs; ii) 
Strategies to expand screening for NCDs and their risk factors in community, school, workplace, faith -
based settings (e.g. Human Papillomavirus - HPV screening, blood pressure monitoring, blood sugar 
testing); ii) Partnered strategies to prevent NCDs in the community (e.g. educational campaigns, 
changes to school or work environments, promotion/delivery of healthy food choice and diet, 
opportunities for increased physical activity, strategies to support tobacco cessation and alcohol 
cessation); iv) Cost effective, patient centred treatment and management of NCDs in the community 
(e.g. mental health support, community medicine purchasing clubs, self -management groups); v) Non -
health sector policy introduction e.g. environmental policy or practices (e.g. improvements to transport 
systems, public infrastructure) and the potential co -benefits on health; vi) Digital interventions e.g. for 
patient or care giver support, such as use of Artificial Intelligence for Patient support or to promote 
prevention messages on Chronic Disease Risk Factors). 
• Engage an appropriately expert and skilled research team which can ensure a suitable 
multidisciplinary approach and that demonstrates equitable partnership and shared 
leadership between HIC -LMIC, and/or non -Indigenous-Indigenous members of the 
project team and external stakeholders through a clear governance strategy. 
• Provide a stakeholder engagement strategy with evidence of support/engagement from 
key stakeholders for delivering the intervention and a pathway to sustain the proposed 
intervention (if proven effective) after the funding from the GACD grant ends. 
• Provide opportunities for implementation research capacity building for early career 
researchers and team members from lower resourced environments, such as LMICs or 
disadvantaged communities. 
• Ensure meaningful involvement of early career team members, including at least one 
early career member as a co-investigator.  
The study population may include the general population, people with one or more existing 
NCDs, those currently without NCDs, or a combination of both. Applicants may propose 
implementation research focused on interventions that are implemented at the individual, 
family, community (e.g. work or school), population, and/or structural level. With regard to 
NCDs, applicants are encouraged to explore any chronic non -communicable condition (or 
combination of conditions), including mental health disorders, substance use disorders, 
autoimmune conditions, musculoskeletal conditions, neurological disorders and sleep 
disorders and/or any risk factor (or combination of risk factors). Additionally, whenever 
relevant, applicants are also encouraged to take a life course approach, adapting interventions 
for particular life stages with the goal of promoting life-long health. 
Proposals should use an appropriate implementation research design and frameworks 177 , 
cluster Randomised Control Trials (cRCTs), before and after studies, and additional 
implementation science classifications of study designs (e.g. hybrid designs 178), noting that 
applicants are not limited to any particular design. 
Proposals are expected to generate evidence that is of direct relevance to policymakers, 
communities and practitioners. Proposed work should develop a strategy to include the 
relevant policymakers, local authorities, as well as other stakeholders such as community 
groups, or other individuals or organisations involved in the implementation of the 
intervention, with co-creation from the development of the proposal through to the knowledge 
translation phase. Project partners should be engaged from the beginning to contribute to the 
sustainability of the intervention after the end of project. Proposals should demonstrate 
sustainability of the strategy, beyond the lifespan of the project. 
 
Poverty, discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin 179, religion or belief, disability, 
age, and other inequities are directly associated with reduced potential for equitable access to 
quality care. Proposals should consider relevant determinants of health (e.g. social, structural, 
commercial, economic) and discuss their potential impact on the effective implementation of 
the intervention(s). If there is a focus on a particular population (e.g. gender, racial or ethnic 
origin180, etc.), then the reason for this should be justified. 
This topic requires the effective contribution of social sciences and humanities (SSH) 
disciplines and the involvement of SSH experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of 
relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce meaningful and significant effects enhancing the 
societal impact of the related research activities. 
All projects funded under this topic are strongly encouraged to participate in networking and 
joint activities, including internationally, as appropriate. These activities could, for example, 
involve the participation in joint workshops, the Annual Scientific Meetings of the GACD, the 
exchange of knowledge, the development and adoption of best practices, or joint 
communication activities. Therefore, proposals are expected to include a budget for such 
activities and should consider covering the costs of any other potential joint activities without 
the prerequisite to detail concrete joint activities at this stage. The details of these joint 
activities will be defined during the grant agreement preparation phase. 
Applicants should provide details of their clinical studies 181 in the dedicated annex using the 
template provided in the submission system. As proposals under this topic are expected to 
include clinical studies, the use of the template is strongly encouraged.