HORIZON-HLTH-2027-01-ENVHLTH-02: Integrating climate -related exposures into 
the human exposome and characterising its changes in response to climate change 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2027/1) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
10.00 and 11.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 45.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in the 
United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or as 
an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation and 
submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 4 
(Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Beneficiaries will be subject to the following additional dissemination 
obligations: Proposals should ensure that chemical monitoring and 
human biomonitoring data are shared in the Common Data Platform for 
Chemicals and its services such as the Information Platform for 
Chemical Monitoring - IPCHEM 101  (through involvement with the 
European Commission's Joint Research Centre - JRC) and the 
environmental sustainability database. 
In order to maximise synergies and increase the impact of the projects, 
all proposals selected for funding from this topic will form a cluster and 
be required to participate in common networking and joint activities (and 
in determining modalities for their implementation and the specific 
responsibilities of projects). These activities will be included in a 
dedicated work package, having sufficient budget allocated to it (around 
2% of the total requested budget). Depending on the scope of proposals 
selected for funding, these activities may include: 
• Attendance of regular joint meetings (e.g. common kick -off 
meeting and annual meetings). 
• Periodic report of joint activities (delivered at each reporting 
period). 
 
• Common dissemination and communication activities (which may 
include, for example: a common dissemination and 
communication strategy, web portal and visual identity, brochure, 
newsletters). 
• Common Data Management Strategy and Common Policy 
Strategy (including joint policy briefs). 
• Thematic workshops/trainings on issues of common interest. 
• Working groups on topics of common interest (e.g. data 
management and exchange, communication and dissemination, 
science-policy link, scientific synergies). 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Living and working in a health -promoting 
environment”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim to deliver results that are 
directed at, tailored towards and contributing to most of the following expected outcomes: 
• Researchers, policymakers, healthcare practitioners and the public have a more 
comprehensive understanding of the human exposome and the interactions between 
climatic, environmental and socio -behavioural factors, supported by FAIR 102  data 
linking these exposures to disease and health outcomes. 
• Researchers, governments, policymakers, social care services and healthcare 
practitioners have improved knowledge on the links between the climatic, social, 
lifestyle and environmental factors of the exposome and global health burden, supporting 
their efforts to adopt the exposome approach to identify and address relevant health 
impacts. 
• The public has access to the latest information on the influence of global environmental 
exposures on health, enabling the adoption of health -promoting, climate -resilient and 
nature-positive behaviours.  
Scope: The exposome is the totality of exposures (and their interactions) experienced by an 
individual throughout their lifetime, including chemical, physical, biological, nutritional and 
psychosocial factors, from conception onwards. Many of these factors originate in the 
environment, including climate -related exposures such as extreme heat, heightened air 
pollution or drought. Climate change may amplify or interact synergistically with other better-
established exposures, dynamically altering the human exposome and its health implications. 
Despite this, climate factors remain underrepresented in large-scale human exposome studies. 
 
Research activities under this topic should strengthen the use of the exposome approach to 
study global exposures and generate evidence on their health implications. Proposals should 
focus on integrating climate -related factors into exposome research and understanding how 
the exposome changes in response to direct and indirect climate exposures. Moreover, 
research activities should be multiscale and multidisciplinary and account for the complexity 
and multifactorial nature of health determinants and the most pressing unmet medical needs in 
relation to environmental degradation and disrupted ecosystems. Proposals should include 
climate-relevant social determinants of health as part of their proposed activities. 
More specifically, research actions under this topic should include all the following activities: 
• Incorporate multiple climate exposures into exposomics studies and provide insights on 
their influence on disease burden, through interactions with other exposome factors. 
• Predict, identify and monitor changes in the exposome (including environmental, social 
and occupational exposures) resulting from climate -related pressures and study their 
health implications to identify emerging health risks and potential benefits of climate 
change. 
• Advance data generation, analysis, integration and interpretation in human exposomics, 
developing methodologies and integrating novel approaches (e.g. AI technologies and 
machine learning) for advanced data analytics, including for Real-World Data (RWD)103.  
In addition, research actions should include several of the following targeted activities: 
• Establish and investigate the biological pathways and mechanisms by which the 
exposome drives health impacts, jointly considering climate-related and other exposures. 
Build upon (when relevant) and study existing and/or newly generated longitudinal 
cohorts that combine individual exposome data with the corresponding medical, omics 
and biological data. 
• Identify exposome-relevant indicators and biomarkers for exposome -related health risks 
and potential benefits using comprehensive exposome studies that combine climate, 
environmental, behavioural and social exposures. Account for disparities in individual 
trajectories and exposure patterns where relevant. 
• Report on health-relevant exposome findings using, where possible, standardised metrics 
to ensure harmonised reporting of exposome -driven disease burden across regions and 
sectors. Build on existing exposome toolboxes and increase their robustness and 
coverage by integrating climate related exposures. 
• Study the role of socioeconomic (e.g. income, energy poverty, occupation), demographic 
(e.g. gender, racial or ethnic origin 104 , age) and behavioural (e.g. public trust, risk 
 
perception) factors in determining patterns of exposure, using the exposome approach to 
generate knowledge on intersectional vulnerability and resilience to exposome -driven 
(including climate -driven) health impacts. Identify disproportionately affected 
populations and develop interventions to reduce disparities.  
When handling vulnerability data and indicators, sex -, gender -, racial or ethnic origin 105-
disaggregated data should be collected and analysed, incorporating intersectional factors 
where feasible and relevant. 
International cooperation is encouraged, in particular with regions that are under -represented 
in human exposome research. 
Projects should leverage the knowledge, data and tools already generated under past 
initiatives such as EHEN 106 and ongoing initiatives such as IHEN 107 , ICOS ERIC 108  and 
EIRENE RI109. 
Proposals are encouraged to consider, where relevant, the data, expertise and services offered 
by European research infrastructures 110  in the environment, climate and health domain. 
Projects should make the tools developed as part of their research available on the IHEN 
Exposome Toolbox111 and upload their data sets in the IHEN Data Catalogue112. 
In order to maximise synergies and increase the impact of the projects, all proposals selected 
for funding from this topic will form a cluster and be required to participate in common 
networking and joint activities. Guidance on the potential activities to be developed can be 
obtained by consulting the ongoing clusters of projects under the Environment, Climate and 
Health research portfolio113. 
Proposals should make sure that relevant activities, outcomes and outputs are shared with the 
European Climate and Health Observatory 114 through the cluster that will be formed after the 
approval of the proposals. 
This topic requires the effective contribution of social sciences and humanities (SSH) 
disciplines and the involvement of SSH experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of 
relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce meaningful and significant effects enhancing the 
societal impact of the related research activities. 
 
Applicants envisaging to include clinical studies 115 should provide details of their clinical 
studies in the dedicated annex using the template provided in the submission system.