HORIZON-HLTH-2027-01-ENVHLTH-MISSCLIMA-03: Tools and technologies to 
support health adaptation to climate change 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2027/1) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
4.00 and 5.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 20.00 million. 
Type of Action Pre-commercial Procurement 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in 
the United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
If projects use satellite-based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
The specific conditions for actions with PCP/PPI procurements in 
section H of the General Annexes apply to grants funded under this 
topic. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Beneficiaries must ensure that the subcontracted work is performed in 
the EU and Associated Countries - unless otherwise approved by the 
granting authority. 
Grants award under this topic will have to submit the following 
deliverable: To stimulate dialogue with the supply side, procurers are 
required to organise an open market consultation before launching the 
procurement and deliver a report on the outcomes of this consultation. 
Beneficiaries will be subject to the following additional dissemination 
 
obligations: Procurers are required to promote the call for tenders 
widely across the EU and Associated Countries to potentially 
interested suppliers. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties to ensure 
the deployment and impact of the project outcomes. The support to 
third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The maximum 
amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
The specific conditions are described in General Annex H. 
PCP procurement costs are eligible. 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Living and working in a health -promoting 
environment” and the EU Mission on Adaptation to Climate Change. To that end, proposals 
under this topic should aim to deliver results that are directed at, tailored towards and 
contributing to most of the following expected outcomes: 
• Populations, public authorities and healthcare systems benefit from innovative solutions 
and technologies to increase surveillance and prevention and reduce climatic and 
environmental health risks. 
• Policymakers and public authorities develop and implement environment, climate 
change and health policies and interventions supported by nearly fit -for-use solutions 
that can be further upscaled and deployed.  
Scope: Enhancing the adaptive capacity and resilience of healthcare systems and communities 
is crucial to prevent and reduce the health impacts of climate change. However, many of the 
urgently needed technologies, tools, systems and solutions are still at an early developmental 
stage, relying on further support for development and testing. Proposals under this topic are 
expected to close this gap and build on innovations being developed in the field, supported 
through, among others, EU Research and Innovation (R&I) funding. In this context, Pre -
commercial Procurement (PCP) projects can drive innovation and speed up the development 
of technologies for health adaptation to climate change by supporting the research and 
development of solutions to increase the resilience and preparedness of healthcare systems, 
communities and individuals against climate change. By focusing on early -stage solutions, 
PCP fosters collaboration between public sector buyers (e.g. public authorities, local 
authorities, health organisations) and private developers to create climate adaptation 
technologies, systems and solutions in the context of human health. These solutions will 
accelerate the transition to more climate-resilient healthcare systems and societies. 
PCP actions target consortia of procurers with similar needs that want to jointly procure the 
development of innovative solutions for supporting adaptation efforts. This topic does not 
provide direct funding to developers, industry or research organisations to perform Research 
and Development (R&D). They will be able to respond to the call for tenders launched by 
consortia of procurers funded under this topic. 
Proposals under this topic should support the development of innovative solutions, tools and 
models to enhance surveillance, prediction, prevention, risk management and diagnosis (e.g. 
testing), supporting the adaptation, resilience, and preparedness of healthcare systems and 
populations to climatic and climate-related environmental health risks. 
More specifically proposals can support any of the areas listed below: 
• Geospatial technologies and decision -support frameworks that help local authorities and 
healthcare providers track at “high resolution” and better manage direct and indirect 
health risks related to climate change. 
• Real-time risk surveillance and early -warning technologies and monitoring tools that 
provide critical information for timely decision -making and responses related to the 
health risks of climate change. 
• Technologies and solutions that facilitate the transition to climate -resilient healthcare 
facilities and services. Activities targeting the general infrastructure (e.g. ventilation, 
construction or refurbishment) are out of scope. 
• Technologies, tools, procedures and solutions for health risk management, prevention 
and resilience, enhancing strategies and interventions for health adaptation to climate 
change in communities and occupational settings. 
• Innovative tools reducing risk and exposure to climate related environmental factors that 
exacerbate health risks.  
This topic considers tools and technologies that could be developed and tested to support 
adaptation at both the community and healthcare system levels 116 . This approach would 
comprehensively address the needs of health authorities and those of local authorities and 
public organisations involved in risk management. Consortium composition could include 
diverse stakeholders such as hospitals, primary healthcare providers, domestic care services, 
municipalities, civil protection entities and government agencies. The focus can extend 
beyond climate variables to include other related environmental and ecological factors (for 
example air pollution) that interact with climate change and impact public health. 
Proposals are encouraged to consider, where relevant, the data, expertise and services offered 
by European research infrastructures117 in the environment, climate and health domain. 
 
Continuous dialogue between demand and supply side is required for the success of PCPs, 
therefore the effective involvement of end users should be considered in the proposal. 
Involvement of procurement decision makers is needed to ensure that end solution(s) are 
adopted by healthcare systems and/or local authorities and public organisations increasing the 
societal impact of the related research activities. Therefore, procurers should declare in the 
proposal their interest to purchase at least one solution resulting from the PCP in case the PCP 
delivers successful solutions and indicate whether they will i) procure the solution(s) as part 
of the PCP or ii) in a separate follow-up procurement after the PCP. In the first case, procurers 
can implement the project as a fast -track PCP (see section H of the General Annexes of this 
Work Programme for further details) and foresee the budget to purchase at least one solution 
during the PCP. In the second case, the procurers should include in the proposal a deliverable 
that prepares the follow-up procurement to purchase successful solution(s) after the PCP. 
This topic is co-financed by the EU Mission on Adaptation to climate change 118 and supports 
the follow up to the 2023 Communication on the Missions 119. Projects are encouraged to 
channel their activities through the Mission Implementation Platform 120 and the Mission’s 
Community of Practice121. 
 
