HORIZON-HLTH-2026-01-DISEASE-04: Development of novel vaccines for viral 
pathogens with epidemic potential 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
9.00 and 11.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 44.20 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in the 
United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or 
as an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 
4 (Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced project portfolio covering the viruses targeted in 
this topic 162 , grants will be awarded (within available budget) to 
proposals not only in order of ranking but at least also to those 
proposals that are the highest ranked within different viruses targeted, 
provided that the proposals attain all thresholds. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Tackling diseases and reducing disease 
burden”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim to deliver results that are directed 
at, tailored towards and contributing to all the following expected outcomes: 
• The scientific and clinical communities have a better understanding of and access to 
experimental vaccines for the prevention and treatment of emerging or re -emerging viral 
infections, as well as for further clinical investigation, including better understanding of 
biological sex and social determinants that influence immune response, vaccine efficacy, 
safety, and uptake. 
• Candidate vaccines are available for emerging and re -emerging viral infections, 
increasing therapeutic options for clinical deployment in case of an epidemic or 
pandemic.  
Scope: Infectious diseases remain a major threat to health and health security in the EU and 
globally. Viral disease emergence is already being accelerated by climate change, and thus a 
proactive approach to the development of vaccine -based antiviral prophylactics and 
therapeutics in preparedness for future infectious disease outbreaks is needed. The availability 
of vaccines that can be adjusted to variants would provide a critical preparedness measure 
against future health threats, due to infectious disease epidemics or pandemics. 
This topic contributes to strengthening the Research and Innovation ecosystem within the EU 
and supports the implementation of the European Medical Countermeasures Strategy163. 
 
Applicants should explicitly state in their proposal which of the following viruses is targeted 
and the proposed work should address only this specific virus. The proposed work should aim 
to advance the development of existing prophylactic and therapeutic vaccine candidates 
targeting exclusively one of the following viruses:   
i. Junin mammarenavirus 
ii. Lassa mammarenavirus 
iii. Andes virus, 
iv. Hantaan virus 
v. Sin Nombre virus 
vi. Hendra virus 
vii. Enterovirus D68 
viii. Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus  
Proposals should thus aim to diversify and accelerate the global prophylactic and therapeutic 
research and development portfolio for emerging and re -emerging viral infections, and to 
strengthen the leading role of the EU in prophylactic and therapeutic research and 
development. 
Proposals should address all the following research areas: 
• If necessary, finalisation of the in -vitro characterisation of existing vaccine candidates 
with regard to target specificity, epitope recognised, and their ability to impair or 
inactivate viral functions. 
• In-vivo tests in at least one animal model or, if available in humanised immune system 
animal models, to demonstrate the protective function of the vaccine candidates deemed 
sufficient for moving to first clinical trials. 
• If requested by regulators as pre -requisite for clinical studies, in -vivo tests in a non -
human primate model. 
• Production of batches of the most promising vaccine candidates according to the Good 
Manufacturing Practices (GMP)164. 
• First in human clinical safety studies demonstrating a clear regulatory pathway for 
market authorisation. Attention should be paid to critical biological and social factors 
such as sex, age, ethnicity and disability.  
Participation of third countries where viruses addressed in the proposal are endemic or where 
outbreaks have occurred or are ongoing is encouraged. 
 
The European Commission's Joint Research Centre (JRC) may contribute to the proposals 
selected for funding with work on strategic technologies for economic security and innovative 
industrial ecosystems, particularly activities on innovation in vitro biotechnologies. 
The participation of start -ups, micro, small and medium -sized enterprises (SMEs) 165  is 
encouraged with the aim of strengthening their scientific and technological foundations, 
enhancing their innovation potential, and exploring possibilities for commercial exploitation. 
All projects funded under this topic are expected to engage with regulatory bodies in a timely 
manner to ensure adequacy of the actions from a regulatory point of view. 
Proposals should advance research by leveraging already existing and emerging state -of-the-
art research infrastructures 166  such as those having contributed to the services developed 
under the ISIDORe project167. 
Applicants should provide details of their clinical studies 168 in the dedicated annex using the 
template provided in the submission system. As proposals under this topic are expected to 
include clinical studies, the use of the template is strongly encouraged.