HORIZON-HLTH-2026-01-IND-03: Regulatory science to support translational 
development of patient-centred health technologies 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
4.00 and 6.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 19.60 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in the 
United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 
4 (Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 436. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Maintaining an innovative, sustainable, and 
competitive EU health industry”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim to deliver 
results that are directed at, tailored towards and contributing to several of the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Policymakers and regulators will get accelerated access to improved evidence driven 
methodologies to evaluate the impact and efficiency of novel health technologies, 
facilitating decision-making for their use in humans and uptake in clinical practice. 
• Patients and the health systems will benefit from the more targeted and efficient uptake 
of safe and effective health innovations in clinical practice, supporting more personalised 
approaches and improved care and public health.  
 
Scope: The development, uptake and impact of health technologies typically results from a 
long product development process that is based on a 'life cycle approach' which typically 
involves several iterations of defined stages, i.e. from development, assessment to post-market 
surveillance and post-market clinical follow-up. 
While health technologies are governed by comprehensive legal frameworks aiming to ensure 
that health technologies are safe and effective, the regulatory science underlying these legal 
frameworks needs to be updated. This concerns inter alia  i) more precise delineation of 
specific requirements (e.g. closing existing gaps concerning sufficiency of clinical evidence) 
and ii) the consideration of novel biomedical approaches, data and digital solutions (e.g. 
artificial intelligence - AI, virtual human twin, new approach methodologies as well as 
methods that cut through these domains) which model and predict relevant biological 
parameters and exploit relevant end -points and novel (bio)markers for clinical diagnostic and 
prognostic predictions. Such update of the regulatory science of health technologies should 
aim at supporting an effective adoption and uptake into routine use by health systems and 
end-users (healthcare providers, citizens), while maintaining guardrails to ensure that 
innovative health technologies are backed up by evidence of sufficient quality and relevance 
to the human situation. 
Proposals can cover all types of health technologies, aiming to define improved and novel 
sources of evidence with proven relevance for regulatory decision -making with a focus on 
safety and performance throughout their lifecycle, i.e. throughout the continuous process of 
clinical evaluation. To this end, proposals should address either, or a combination of the 
following: i) the improvement of existing methodologies and their fitness to specific types or 
classes of health technologies, including methodology for regulatory assessment and ii) 
explore and examine to which extent novel information sources as indicated above can be 
considered as evidence that is satisfactory in view of regulatory needs concerning safety and 
performance. 
Proposals should support the update and refinement of regulatory science on health 
technologies and contribute actionable information that can be used for improved or novel 
regulatory policies, rules, guidance documents and other tools with a view to ensuring that 
European patients and healthcare professionals have access to safe and effective innovative 
health technologies. Proposals should ultimately contribute to a regulatory environment that 
makes use of the full spectrum of novel biomedical and bio -digital approaches for clinical 
investigation and evaluation, while promoting a patient-centred approach to health technology 
innovation, facilitating the timely entry to market of performant and effective innovations and 
support their uptake in the health systems and clinical workflows without compromising 
patient safety. 
Applicant consortia should reflect a broad representation of stakeholders, notably clinical 
societies, academia, notified bodies, industry, patients and regulators and the proposed work 
should address one or more of the following elements: 
• Data and analyses on how existing approaches in regulatory science can be refined and 
improved in view of closing existing gaps of clarity, sufficiency of clinical evidence, 
generated on the basis of clinical studies and clinical investigations. 
• Data and analyses on whether and to which extent novel information sources from 
biomedicine including new approach methods and digital and AI -enabled models and 
approaches can contribute to the clinical evaluation of innovative health technologies, 
e.g.:        
 By providing information on relevant biophysical, anatomical, physiological and 
other disease-relevant aspects.    
 By supporting information integration through the use and aggregation of already 
existing data, including clinical ones, from similar types or groups of technologies 
(e.g. retrospective information in registries, data collections, including Real -World 
Data (RWD)437 from using technologies that have characteristics that are relevant 
for innovative technologies).    
 By supporting improved planning and design of first -in-man clinical studies, with a 
view of enhancing the effectiveness and the safety of such studies and rationalising 
the use of resources of all involved actors by focusing the generation and 
assessment of clinical data on health technologies for which those data are 
indispensable.   
• Data and analyses that examine to which extent the above -mentioned points can support 
the development and uptake of innovative technologies for unmet medical needs and for 
special patient populations (e.g. paediatric and rare conditions) via dedicated regulatory 
pathways and/or within a structured framework enabling their development and testing 
in a real-world environment under regulatory supervision (“regulatory sandbox”).  
The actual conduct of clinical studies438 is not in scope of this topic. 
The activities should cover and draw on all the relevant healthcare innovation related 
frameworks other than pharmaceutical products, i.e. medical devices, in -vitro diagnostics, AI, 
and Substances of Human Origin (SoHO). 
The starting point is a good understanding of the innovative technology and of its inherent 
risks, so that appropriate safety and quality requirements can be applied for monitoring the 
outcome in the relevant healthcare setting. As the number of hybrid or combinations of health 
technologies increases and technology integration becomes rather the norm than an exception 
in health innovation, the current segregated, technology-specific, frameworks may not provide 
a clear path forward for the health technology that is targeted. To that end, when considering 
 
an innovation, it is important to consider all relevant legislative frameworks including 
MDR439 and IVDR440, the proposed SoHO-Regulation441, and AI Act442 among others. 
Proposals are encouraged to consider, where relevant, the data, expertise and services offered 
by European research infrastructures especially those active in the health domain, such as 
EATRIS ERIC443, and also the findings of previous EU-projects (e.g.: CORE-MD444).