HORIZON-HLTH-2026-01-TOOL-03: Integrating New Approach Methodologies 
(NAMs) to advance biomedical research and regulatory testing 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
5.00 and 8.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 49.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in the 
United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or as 
an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation and 
submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 4 
(Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
In order to maximise synergies and increase the impact of the projects, 
all proposals selected for funding from this topic will form a cluster and 
be required to participate in common networking and joint activities (and 
in determining modalities for their implementation and the specific 
responsibilities of projects). These activities will be included in a 
dedicated work package, having sufficient budget allocated to it (around 
2% of the total requested budget). Depending on the scope of proposals 
selected for funding, these activities may include: 
• Attendance of regular joint meetings (e.g. common kick -off 
meeting and annual meetings). 
• Periodic report of joint activities (delivered at each reporting 
period). 
• Common dissemination and communication activities (which may 
include, for example: a common dissemination and 
communication strategy, web portal and visual identity, brochure, 
newsletters). 
• Common Data Management Strategy and Common Policy 
Strategy (including joint policy briefs). 
• Thematic workshops/trainings on issues of common interest. 
• Working groups on topics of common interest (e.g. data 
management and exchange, communication and dissemination, 
science-policy link, scientific synergies). 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 359. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Developing and using new tools, 
technologies and digital solutions for a healthy society”. To that end, proposals under this 
topic should aim to deliver results that are directed at, tailored towards and contributing to 
several of the following expected outcomes: 
• Researchers are in possession of improved human -relevant New Approach 
Methodologies (NAMs) platforms that capture the genetic, phenotypic, age -related, 
immune, microbiome, and environmental exposure variability of the human population. 
 
These innovations support more equitable healthcare solutions and personalised 
treatment strategies across diverse life stages. 
• Industry gets access to platforms that allow a faster pace of innovation for the 
development of more cost -effective targeted therapeutic interventions and improvement 
of the safety assessment of chemicals, other medicinal products, and medical devices. 
• Patients benefit from innovative platforms and strategies that improve prediction, 
prevention and treatment of diseases, in particular through enhanced understanding of 
disease pathways and mechanisms. 
• The general population is better protected through a safer environment, as these 
platforms enhance the detection and mitigation of risks posed by chemicals and other 
potentially harmful substances. 
• Regulatory bodies gain confidence and trust in NAMs, supporting their integration into 
product development, risk assessment, and approval processes. 
• Fewer live animals are used in biomedical research and regulatory testing.  
Scope: This topic aims to support the ongoing paradigm shift in biomedical research and 
safety assessment of chemical compounds by fully integrating NAMs across the entire 
research and regulatory spectrum, from basic discovery phase to clinical application, and 
regulatory testing of medicinal products and medical devices, and/or industrial and 
environmental chemicals. 
NAMs include a wide range of innovative and human -relevant technologies such as in -vitro 
or human ex -vivo assays, organoids, Organ -on-Chip (OoC) systems, human tissue models, 
induced Pluripotent Stem Cell (iPSC) applications, virtual twin tools, in -silico methods, and 
Artificial Intelligence (AI)-driven modelling. 
Although the Commission and several Member States have supported the development of 
NAMs for over two decades, primarily in the context of chemical risk assessment, regulatory 
uptake remains limited. There is a need to address this situation by delivering validated 
NAMs solutions that can be adopted by industry and accepted by the regulators for the safety 
assessment of chemicals. In parallel, there is a growing readiness to expand the development 
and application of NAMs across the entire biomedical research spectrum, from early 
discovery through to clinical translation and regulatory testing of medicinal products and 
medical devices. 
Proposals should bring together stakeholders from academia, health -related infrastructures, 
SMEs360, industry, and regulators to develop new NAMs platforms or improve existing ones 
that could be used for biomedical applications and/or regulatory testing. For biomedical 
applications, these platforms should enhance disease modelling precision, especially in areas 
where current animal models are of limited human relevance, and where NAMs could 
 
effectively complement or replace animal studies. For proposals addressing regulatory use, in 
particular the safety assessment of chemicals, other medicinal products and medical devices, 
the intended context(s) of use should be clearly defined, with validation strategies and 
methodologies aligned with current OECD and/or European Medicines Agency (EMA) 
guidance. Early, proactive, and sustained engagement with regulators should also be 
demonstrated. 
Proposals should develop or optimise scalable and reproducible platforms based on one or 
more of the following: 
• Advanced in-vitro assays. 
• iPSC-based models, organoid or complex OoC systems derived from patients and/or 
healthy donors. 
• Human tissues that closely replicate physiological and pathological conditions.  
In order to enable real -time monitoring of physiological responses, proposals should consider 
integration of embedded sensors. They should also address biological diversity, reflecting 
variations in genetics, phenotype, age, immune status, and microbiome across the population. 
Moreover, proposals may incorporate one or both of the following complementary approaches 
to enhance predictive power and clinical relevance: 
• AI-driven predictive modelling trained on high -quality, curated, bias-minimised datasets 
to predict outcomes of biomedical interventions, or risk assessment. 
• Virtual twin technology to simulate disease progression, responses to interventions, and 
support the optimisation of clinical trials.  
To maximise scientific impact, interoperability, and reuse, all data generated should comply 
with FAIR 361 principles. Proposals should describe how data will be curated, standardised, 
and shared within or linked to the European Health Data Space (EHDS) 362  or other 
repositories, and/or relevant ESFRI363 research infrastructures. 
In order to optimise synergies and increase the impact of the projects, all proposals selected 
for funding from this topic will form a cluster and be required to participate in common 
networking and joint activities. 
Proposals should consider involving the European Commission's Joint Research Centre 
(JRC), including its EU Reference Laboratory for alternatives to animal testing (EURL 
 
ECVAM)364, to take advantage of its expertise and relevant activities in bridging research and 
application communities and facilitating uptake of NAMs in biomedical research and 
regulatory testing. In that respect, the JRC should collaborate with any successful proposal 
and this collaboration should be established after the proposal’s approval. 
Applicants envisaging to include clinical studies 365 should provide details of their clinical 
studies in the dedicated annex using the template provided in the submission system.