HORIZON-HLTH-2027-02-IND-02-two-stage: Portable and versatile Point -of-care 
diagnostics 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Two stage - 2027) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
5.00 and 7.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 39.30 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Applicants submitting a proposal for a blind evaluation (see General 
Annex F) must not disclose their organisation names, acronyms, logos 
nor names of personnel in the proposal abstract and Part B of their first -
stage application (see General Annex E). 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in the 
United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
For the first stage, the thresholds for each criterion will be 4 
(Excellence) and 4 (Impact). The overall threshold applying to the sum 
of the two individual scores will be set at a level that ensures the total 
requested budget of proposals admitted to stage 2 is as close as possible 
to four times the available budget, and not less than three and a half 
times the available budget. 
For the second stage, the thresholds for each criterion will be 4 
(Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 4 (Implementation). The cumulative 
threshold will be 12. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The first-stage proposals of this topic will be evaluated blindly. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 448. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Maintaining an innovative, sustainable, and 
competitive EU health industry”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim to deliver 
results that are directed at, tailored towards and contributing to all the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Healthcare professionals dispose of diagnostic tools at the point of care that accelerate 
therapeutic decision making. 
• Patients benefit from fast and accurate diagnosis leading to improved health outcomes. 
• Thanks to more efficient diagnosis, health systems will get better evidence for disease 
control and prevention strategies.  
Scope: Point-of-Care (PoC) medical testing has made great technical progress (e.g. improved 
extraction, microfluidics, miniaturisation, and data processing techniques) with PoC test 
accuracies nearly matching those of lab -based tests. PoC tests may thus be an alternative to 
laboratory testing methods, enabling faster diagnostic results and therapeutic decision making. 
 
However, PoC testing is not always achieving a completely accurate diagnosis and one of the 
major issues with PoC diagnostics is the occurrence of false results during testing, another one 
is the often -cumbersome sample preparation. Hence there is a need for PoC diagnostics that 
are more sensitive, selective and easy-to-use allowing for improved clinical practice. 
The World Health Organization (WHO) has defined a set of criteria for PoC diagnostics in 
primary care which, in the advent of digital technologies, has been completed with two 
additional features and is represented by the acronym REASSURED: Real-time connectivity, 
Ease of specimen collection and environmental friendliness, Affordable, Sensitive, Specific, 
User-friendly, Rapid and robust, Equipment-free (or equipment -modest) and Deliverable to 
end users. To these criteria adds the feature of “sample -to-answer” (sometimes also called 
“sample-to-result”) and more challenges like: Miniaturisation, power supply, versatility 
(nature and origin of the human sample), biocompatibility of the used materials and their 
suitability for mass production, readiness for high -throughput testing, quality control, 
regulatory compliance, environmental footprint and, last but not least, cost, which is of 
particular concern in resource-limited settings. All these challenges are not only valid for PoC 
diagnostics developed for infectious diseases, they equally apply to those that are designed to 
detect non-communicable diseases as well as their continuous monitoring on patients. Mobile 
technologies are playing an important role, especially since around 70% of the globally 7.4 
billion cell phone users live in developing countries, which are the areas in direct need of 
advanced and more accessible PoC diagnostics (lower density of relevant health 
infrastructure, e.g. hospitals and laboratory medicine testing facilities). Mobile phones have 
not only been proposed and tested for data acquisition and readout of assays, images and other 
results but also for sample processing (e.g. for heating step), as have been Machine -
Learning/Artificial Intelligence (ML/AI) powered algorithms that are integrated in the 
diagnostic devices to analyse complex biological data and detect patterns that might be missed 
by human analysis. 
The selection of the PoC device to be developed or optimised should be based on an 
objectively conducted clinical needs assessment, which includes -next to clinicians’ 
perspectives- the complete care pathway and system -level needs. Moreover, a value -based 
concept should be applied in the choice and development of the PoC device, taking into 
account its Health Technology Assessment (HTA) by the relevant HTA bodies, in order to 
facilitate their decisions for adoption. 
Proposals should be driven by a clear clinical need, integrate a value -based concept and 
include all the following activities: 
• The optimisation of (the) targeted PoC diagnostic device(s) that take(s) the above -
mentioned criteria, challenges and aspects into consideration. 
• The elaboration of a comparative study clearly demonstrating the added value and 
improved performance of the optimised PoC diagnostic device(s) as compared to the 
current state of the art for the targeted diagnostic application. 
• The conduct of clinical studies of (the) optimised PoC diagnostic medical device(s) as a 
preferred information source for their clinical validation; subsequent conformity 
assessment in agreement with requisite EU’s In -Vitro Medical Device (IVDR) or 
Medical Device (MDR) regulatory requirements.  
In general, priority should be given to approaches that are suitable for resource -limited 
settings. In case of targeting infectious diseases, priority should be given to approaches 
enabling the distinction between viral, bacterial or fungal infections. In case of targeting non -
communicable diseases, priority should be given to approaches that are used in emergency 
cases where decisions can have life-saving character. 
Applicants invited to the second stage and envisaging to include clinical studies 449 should 
provide details of their clinical studies in the dedicated annex using the template provided in 
the submission system. 
 
