HORIZON-HLTH-2027-03-TOOL-08: Towards Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) 
for healthcare 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2027/2) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 2.90 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 2.90 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to achieve the expected outcomes, and safeguard the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security, it is important to avoid 
a situation of technological dependency on a non -EU source, in a global 
context that requires the EU to take action to build on its strengths, and 
to carefully assess and address any strategic weaknesses, vulnerabilities 
and high -risk dependencies which put at risk the attainment of its 
ambitions. For this reason, participation is limited to legal entities 
established in Member States and Associated Countries. Proposals 
including entities established in countries outside the scope specified in 
the topic will be ineligible. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed in the paragraph 
above, in order to guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of 
the Union and its Member States, entities established in an eligible 
country listed above, but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a 
non-eligible country or by a non -eligible country entity, may not 
participate in the action unless it can be demonstrated, by means of 
guarantees positively assessed by their eligible country of establishment, 
 
that their participation to the action would not negatively impact the 
Union’s strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security. Entities 
assessed as high -risk suppliers of mobile network communication 
equipment within the meaning of ‘restrictions for the protection of 
European communication networks’ (or entities fully or partially owned 
or controlled by a high-risk supplier) cannot submit guarantees.417 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 
4 (Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 418. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Developing and using new tools, 
technologies and digital solutions for a healthy society”. To that end, proposals under this 
 
topic should aim to deliver results that are directed at, tailored towards and contributing to all 
the following expected outcomes: 
• Researchers and innovators benefit from an improved understanding of how to develop 
and use the next generation of frontier Artificial Intelligence (AI) models for healthcare, 
including how to leverage AI Factories and how to combine and expand the capabilities 
of existing foundation models towards inclusive and personalised medicine. 
• Researchers and innovators benefit from an improved understanding of how to leverage 
highly heterogeneous and multimodal health data spanning a range of anatomical scales 
(i.e. the micro to the macro level). 
• Multidisciplinary stakeholders have access to a collaboratively created roadmap for 
developing the next generation of frontier AI models for healthcare, towards Artificial 
General Intelligence (AGI) for healthcare.  
Scope: The AI Continent Action Plan 419  identifies the health sector, encompassing life 
sciences, medical devices and healthcare delivery, as one of the key strategic sectors. The 
action will contribute to making European life sciences 420 and healthcare more impactful and 
productive by fostering the full integration of advanced AI in the health sector and biomedical 
research, along the objectives of the AI in Science strategy421 and Apply AI strategy422. 
Healthcare typically involves the combining of multimodal data, ranging from electronic 
health records through imaging and laboratory to molecular and omics data. This information 
combination is performed by specialists and is often challenging towards optimised patient 
care. In Europe, the growing amount of accessible multimodal health data, including via the 
forthcoming European Health Data Space (EHDS) 423 , combined with the increasing 
availability of high -performance computing facilities (e.g. AI Factories), presents a unique 
opportunity to develop the next generation of frontier AI models for healthcare. This action 
anticipates and operationalises the use of such federated infrastructures for research and 
innovation. Moreover, regulations such as the EHDS regulation and AI Act 424  steer the 
direction into building an ecosystem fostering ethical and safe innovation on AI in healthcare. 
AI models are becoming increasingly complex and able to tackle increasingly challenging 
tasks. The next generation of frontier AI models are expected to make strides towards AGI, a 
type of AI capable of tackling highly complex and diverse tasks with proficiency comparable 
 
to that of humans. This topic will lay the foundation for the development of the next 
generation of frontier AI models, paving the way for new, advanced AI -powered solutions to 
increase efficiency and efficacy in the health sector towards improved patient outcomes. It 
will leverage results, methodologies, data etc. of other relevant EU-funded projects. 
Proposals should include all the following coordination and support activities, ensuring 
multidisciplinary approaches and a broad representation of stakeholders in the consortium 
(e.g. healthcare professionals, patients, biomedical scientists, AI developers, data engineers, 
ethics experts): 
• Community building: build a large -scale and diverse pan -European community of 
stakeholders with the multidisciplinary expertise united as required to develop the next 
generation of frontier AI models for healthcare, towards AGI for healthcare, with a view 
to leveraging as a community the potential of AI Factories. Where relevant, this should 
build on and strengthen existing EU -funded communities and networks, and could pave 
the way for a formalised long -term collaboration under one of the available EU 
instruments. 
• Roadmap creation: review previous research to identify the most promising AI models 
and model development approaches. In addition, risk assess and review evidence on 
safety and efficacy of existing AI models with reference to the AI Act, related regulatory 
provisions (including any jurisprudence) and ethical and security considerations, so that 
frontier AI model development can proceed on a well -informed basis. Finally, create a 
roadmap for developing the next generation of frontier AI models. 
• Dataset identification, curation, expansion and use: i) identification: identify the most 
suitable existing datasets for the development of frontier AI models for healthcare, ii) 
curation: identify how to validate the datasets, ensure dataset interoperability, and 
convert datasets into formats suitable for frontier AI model development, iii) expansion: 
identify additional datasets and/or annotations required for frontier AI model 
development, especially to ensure that datasets are representative and iv) use: identify 
methods and required infrastructure to allow privacy -preserving use and further 
expansion of the datasets in alignment with and through the EHDS. 
• Frontier AI model preparatory activities: mapping approaches for training and evaluating 
frontier AI models (e.g. approaches to combine foundation models for life sciences and 
healthcare delivery in order to develop more advanced and multidisciplinary models 
towards personalised medicine). The approaches should cover all trustworthy AI 
aspects425.  
This action should take into account the results of other relevant projects on AI in health, in 
particular in the two GenAI4EU topics HORIZON -HLTH-2025-01-CARE-01: “End user -
driven application of Generative Artificial Intelligence models in healthcare (GenAI4EU)” 
and HORIZON -HLTH-2025-01-TOOL-03: “Leveraging multimodal data to advance 
 
Generative Artificial Intelligence applicability in biomedical research (GenAI4EU)”, and 
leverage the AI Factories and specialised health data infrastructures funded under the Digital 
Europe Programme426, biobanks, relevant ERICs 427, as well as the data resources accessible 
through the EHDS infrastructure starting in 2029, funded under EU4Health Programme 
(2021-2027)428. 
 
