HORIZON-HLTH-2026-01-DISEASE-11: Understanding of sex and/or gender -specific 
mechanisms of cardiovascular diseases: determinants, risk factors and pathways 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
6.00 and 7.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 39.30 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
 
conditions exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in the 
United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 
4 (Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 182. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Tackling diseases and reducing disease 
burden”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim to deliver results that are directed 
at, tailored towards and contributing to all the following expected outcomes: 
• Researchers, developers of medical interventions, and healthcare professionals have a 
better understanding of biological sex and/or gender -specific health determinants, risk 
factors and pathways for cardiovascular diseases. 
• Researchers, developers of medical interventions, and healthcare professionals have 
access and use sex and/or gender -specific or tailored risk models for better prevention, 
detection and diagnostic and treatment strategies. 
 
• Healthcare systems benefit from novel sex and/or gender -specific strategies for 
prevention, detection, diagnosis and treatment options, resulting in reduced burden of 
cardiovascular diseases.  
Scope: Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the leading cause of premature deaths in the EU 
and account for 32% of all deaths in 2021 (over 1.7 million deaths)183. 
Biological sex and gender play a specific role both in the incidence and the prevalence of 
certain diseases, including CVDs. Sex and gender disparities in CVDs are influenced by 
biological, behavioural, and sociocultural factors, affecting symptoms, prevalence, treatment, 
and outcomes. Hormonal influences, genetic predispositions, and/or physiological differences 
contribute to variations in how CVD presents and progresses in men and women. Risk factors 
such as diabetes, cholesterol, smoking, and age have different impacts across genders, 
highlighting the need for customised treatment strategies. Unique gender -specific conditions 
in women, such as menopause, pregnancy complications like preeclampsia and certain 
autoimmune diseases, also increase the risk for CVDs184. 
Mainstreaming a gender perspective into the research, prevention and control of CVDs is thus 
crucial to understanding and addressing the health risks and needs of women and men of all 
ages185. 
Although the significant progress has been done in investigating sex and/or gender -specific 
pathophysiological mechanisms of cardiovascular diseases, more research is needed to 
translate basic discoveries into the development of innovative prevention, detection, 
diagnosis, and treatment options. 
Proposals should address most of the following aspects: 
• Contribute to further the understanding on the structural, hormonal, and/or biological 
distinctions between sexes/genders to improve diagnostics and therapeutics for CVDs. 
• Develop sex and/or gender -specific tailored risk models in a view of better prevention, 
detection and diagnostic, and treatment strategies. 
• Identify and/or validate novel or existing sex and/or gender -specific health determinants, 
risk factors and pathways for cardiovascular disease(s) through the generation, 
integration and validation of data derived from relevant disciplines (e.g. molecular 
biology, behavioural science, nutrition, clinical, social and environmental epidemiology; 
exposure sciences; genetics and epigenetics, etc.). 
 
• Make use of existing health data, including registries or cohorts, and/or assess the 
necessity to establish new ones, as well as, where relevant, exploit the knowledge gained 
from population -based biobanks. In case of the generation of new data, it should be 
managed in line with the FAIR186 principles, when relevant.  
Proposals are encouraged to consider, where relevant, the data, expertise and services offered 
by European research infrastructures187 in the health domain. 
The use and/or development of new technologies, including digital ones (e.g. (generative) 
Artificial Intelligence) that support research under this topic is encouraged. 
Disease progression and overall health status at different life stages, as well as hormonal 
influences, genetic factors, etc. and psychosocial, socioeconomic, cultural and behavioural 
factors should be considered in the proposed research. Other intersecting factors such as racial 
or ethnic origin 188 , often amplify existing inequalities in health access and outcomes. 
Proposals should, where relevant, consider these to design effective and inclusive 
interventions. 
In the context of gender -specific research, this topic requires the effective contribution of 
social sciences and humanities (SSH) disciplines and the involvement of SSH experts, 
institutions as well as the inclusion of relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce meaningful 
and significant effects enhancing the societal impact of the related research activities. 
The participation of start -ups, micro, small and medium -sized enterprises (SMEs) 189  is 
encouraged with the aim of strengthening their scientific and technological foundations, 
enhancing their innovation potential, and exploring possibilities for commercial exploitation. 
All projects funded under this topic are encouraged to participate in networking and joint 
activities, as appropriate. Proposals should include a budget for the attendance to regular joint 
meetings and may consider covering the costs of any other potential joint activities without 
the prerequisite to detail concrete joint activities at this stage. The details of these joint 
activities will be defined during the grant agreement preparation phase. All projects funded 
under this topic are also encouraged to explore complementarities and exploit potential 
synergies with the projects funded under topic HORIZON -CL6-2026-02-FARM2FORK-10: 
“Sustainable and healthy diets based on health status and socio -economic risk factors of 
ageing population”, once information on the funded projects is available. 
All projects funded under this topic are encouraged to explore potential synergies with 
projects to be funded under the EU4Health Work Programme 2026 related to the gender and 
CVDs. 
 
Applicants envisaging to include clinical studies 190 should provide details of their clinical 
studies in the dedicated annex using the template provided in the submission system.