HORIZON-HLTH-2026-01-CARE-01: Public procurement of innovative solutions for 
improving citizens' access to healthcare through integrated or personalised approaches 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 8.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 24.50 million. 
Type of Action Public Procurement of Innovative Solutions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in 
the United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, 
navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must 
make use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and 
services may additionally be used). 
The specific conditions for actions with PCP/PPI procurements in 
section H of the General Annexes apply to grants funded under this 
 
topic. 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties to ensure 
the deployment and impact of the project outcomes. The support to 
third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The maximum 
amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
The specific conditions are described in General Annex H. 
PPI procurement costs are eligible. 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Ensuring equal access to innovative, 
sustainable, and high -quality healthcare”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim 
to deliver results that are directed at, tailored towards and contributing to several of the 
following expected outcomes: 
• Patients and their carers, health authorities and health professionals will benefit from the 
deployment of innovative solutions, designed around actual clinical needs, that facilitate 
identification, integration or coordination of care, allowing for personalised, more 
accessible, inclusive and higher quality of health and care. 
• Patients will benefit from personalised approaches, improved care experiences and 
health outcomes or are more engaged in their care and better equipped to make informed 
decisions on their health, in collaboration with health professionals. 
• Health professionals will be better equipped with, and thus benefit from, improved 
means for diagnosis, care delivery and/or coordination, with multi -disciplinary 
approaches and closer patient engagement, thanks to new technologies. 
• Health systems will improve their accessibility, coordination mechanisms, effectiveness, 
inclusivity and resilience, thanks to innovative solutions, with a better use of resources, 
thus stimulating organisational innovation, cultural transformation within hospitals, and 
European-level collaboration.  
Scope: Public Procurement of Innovative Solutions (PPI) 315  can boost the wider market 
uptake of high impact innovations in health systems, while enhancing the tools available to 
 
providers and improving access to healthcare for citizens. This supports enhancement of 
social rights 316  and the European economic competitiveness by providing business 
opportunities and thus incentives to innovate. By acting as early adopters of innovative 
solutions, procurers can open up new growth markets for the European industry and small and 
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) 317. Joint/collaborative demand -driven initiatives can help 
create economies of scale and facilitate the wider adoption of innovations in the health sector 
for the benefits of patients in need. 
PPI actions target consortia of procurers with a similar need that want to procure together the 
deployment of innovative solutions for supporting integration of care or diagnostics for 
personalised medicine. This topic does not provide direct funding to developers, industry or 
research organisations to perform research and development. They will be able to respond to 
the call for tenders launched by consortia of procurers funded under this topic. 
Proposals should specify which segment of the patient population they target, the specific 
organisational and/or technological innovations to be procured, and why the proposed 
innovative solutions would be fit for purpose adhering, when relevant, to the principles of 
integrated care318 or personalised medicine319. 
Examples of target groups that could be covered by this action are: patients at risk of 
vulnerability such as children and older/frail people with complex needs for health and social 
care; people with multi -morbidities or non -communicable diseases of high burden; people 
with both physical and mental health conditions; people living with rare diseases or cancer; 
persons with disabilities; other groups of patients in need of highly integrated and coordinated 
care. Proposals should pay attention to how gender and intersectional factors (e.g. caregiving 
responsibilities, work-related health disparities etc.) affect healthcare access and outcomes. 
Proposals should demonstrate, with qualitative and quantitative indicators, how they 
contribute to the above expected outcomes, clearly describe the application of the principles 
of integrated care and personalised medicine in the deployed solutions, when relevant. This 
would also include embedding the innovation in the existing health systems, addressing gaps 
and avoiding overlaps, while fostering change management across organisations, professions 
and sectors. 
 
pcp-and-ppi_en For PPI executed by a group of procurers, the lead procurer should coordinate the 
preparation and implementation of one joint or several coordinated public procurements of innovative 
solutions, based on common specifications defined jointly by the buyers’ group. Each PPI should focus 
on one concrete need identified as a common challenge that requires the deployment of innovative 
solutions. Projects that aim to implement a PPI should contain a preparation and execution stage.  
Solutions envisaged within this action are for example digital solutions 320, including Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) elements, to facilitate delivery of integrated care across hospitals, primary 
care, Long -Term Care (LTC) facilities and home settings, or technologies that improve 
routine diagnosis and lead to personalised medicine approach with the health and care setting. 
The actions should target first deployment of innovative solutions across different health and 
care jurisdictions in Europe by engaging public and/or private procurers from each 
participating country (at national, regional or local level) that have deployment 
responsibilities and budget control in the provision of health and care services. Procurers will 
specify, purchase and deploy solutions addressing their relevant and shared unmet needs, 
while engaging together in a supply and demand side dialogue. Proposals should be based on 
clearly identified user needs and well -structured deployment plans, explaining how the 
procurement of the innovative solutions will contribute to the expected outcomes and improve 
current practice. In addition, cost -effectiveness analyses as well as estimates of the wider 
economic impact are highly desirable. 
Activities covered should include cooperation with policymakers to reinforce 
national/regional policy frameworks and policies, to raise awareness, for technical assistance 
and/or capacity building beyond the project, to mainstream PPI implementation and remove 
obstacles to introduce innovative solutions to the market. 
A wide variety of settings are potentially relevant for the implementation of such innovative 
solutions, for example primary healthcare settings, hospitals, specialised centres, long -term 
care facilities and home settings. The involvement of end -users (including for analysing the 
impact of the deployed solutions on health professionals and patients across the care 
continuum) and the use of cross -sectorial approaches are necessary. When relevant, linkage 
with ongoing work at national level for the implementation of the European Health Data 
Space (EHDS) 321 is encouraged. Proposals are encouraged to consider, where relevant, the 
data, expertise and services offered by European research infrastructures 322  in the health 
domain. 
Transfer and adaptation of solutions and/or interventions from other sectors to healthcare is 
possible. The topic is open both to innovations bringing improvements mainly based on one 
specific solution/technology field, as well as to innovations delivering end -to-end solutions 
that need combinations of different types of innovative elements. Proposals are strongly 
encouraged to build upon past work and build synergies with ongoing EU -funded initiatives, 
for example the Joint Actions JADECARE 323  and Xt -EHR 324 , the project 
 
MyHealth@Myhands325  and the three co -funded European Partnerships on Transforming 
Health and Care Systems 326, on Personalised Medicine 327 and on Rare Diseases 328, as well as 
with actions supported under the Technical Support Instrument and the Cohesion Policy 
Funds.