HORIZON-HLTH-2026-01-DISEASE-15: Scaling up innovation in cardiovascular 
health 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 1.90 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 1.90 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, legal entities established in the 
United States of America may exceptionally participate as a beneficiary 
or affiliated entity, and are eligible to receive Union funding. 
Coordinators of projects must be legal entities established in an EU 
Member State or Associated Country. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 
4 (Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
 
Agreements Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 217. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Tackling diseases and reducing disease 
burden”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim to deliver results that are directed 
at, tailored towards and contributing to all the following expected outcomes: 
• Healthcare providers, policymakers and researchers benefit from an improved 
knowledge base and collaboration on the key challenges and gaps on cardiovascular 
health research and a conceptual framework to develop a roadmap for research and 
innovation is established. 
• Health systems gain improved and standardised evidence to better prevent, diagnose or 
treat cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) and associated comorbidities, based on the research 
results on prediction, early detection, screening practices and diagnostic methods and 
tools, including via personalised and digital approaches. 
• Medical and non -medical health professionals and technology developers have an 
increased knowledge, awareness and capacity to uptake and deliver effective and 
innovative approaches for risk prediction, early detection, screening and health 
management strategies, such as Virtual Human Twins (VHT) 218 or Artificial Intelligence 
(AI)-based applications. This involves supporting, strategic foresight, improving health 
literacy and cross-sectoral knowledge exchange and collaboration to drive innovation in 
personalised prevention and cardiovascular risk prediction. 
• Healthcare providers and policymakers have an improved knowledge base to inform 
future strategies for early detection and prevention of CVDs, with specific attention to 
women and vulnerable groups, through research on personalised risk prediction 
approaches that consider multiple and interacting risk factors (e.g. genetic 
predisposition, environmental pollutants, diet, lifestyle habits, multimorbidity, sex and 
gender).  
Scope: CVDs are the main cause of death in the EU, with over 1.7 million deaths annually, 
costing about EUR 282 billion, or 11% of the healthcare budget 219. With projections showing 
 
a rise in CVD prevalence and mortality by 2050 due to an aging population, the Commission 
is preparing a comprehensive EU Cardiovascular Health (CVH) plan 220 to support Member 
States in their efforts to reduce the burden of CVDs. The proposal is expected to support 
prevention, early detection, including via digital and personalised approaches. 
Applicants should take stock of research and innovation results to identify gaps and set up a 
plan for a Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda (SRIA) on CVDs, with the final aim of 
leveraging research and innovation results to improve risk prediction, early detection and 
screening practices for CVDs and associated comorbidities, especially obesity and diabetes, 
across the EU and Associated Countries. This initiative addresses the pressing need to 
translate existing innovations and promising research results into implementable protocols 
that enhance prevention, diagnosis, and health outcomes for diverse populations. By fostering 
collaboration and integrating digital tools and methods, proposals will support the future EU 
CVH plan, building and aligning with future and ongoing activities, including the European 
VHT Initiative, the 1+Million Genomes Initiative 221 , Tech Foresight/Horizon scanning 
activities222  and actions funded under the EU4Health Programme (2021 -2027)223  and the 
Digital Europe Programme224. 
Proposals should include all the following activities: 
• Conduct a comprehensive review at national, EU, and international levels of existing 
cardiovascular research and innovative healthcare solutions, potentially linked with 
associated comorbidities, to identify gaps and areas where future integration into health 
systems can have the greatest impact. The mapping should build upon existing EU -level 
reviews and pay particular attention to sex - and gender -related gaps, including under -
representation in studies and differences in risk, diagnosis, and treatment. Such insights 
will inform subsequent policy actions and implementation initiatives under other funding 
programmes. 
• Create a detailed report outlining the barriers to effective personalised prediction, 
screening and prevention in cardiovascular health, providing recommendations to 
overcome these challenges. 
• Develop a SRIA on CVDs and associated comorbidities aiming to improve personalised 
prevention, prediction and screening and to inform research funders and stakeholders, 
including relevant EU and national initiatives. The agenda will include stakeholder 
validation and adoption pathways. Support the development of personalised prevention 
and care pathways and the role of digital interventions, based on genomics, VHTs and 
 
AI-driven methods in line with the European Health Data Space (EHDS) 225 Regulation, 
to enhance precision in early detection and health management. Where applicable, the 
mapping of existing practices such as biomarkers for diagnosis, monitoring in patients, 
and stratification of patient groups should be considered. 
• Integrate sex and gender -related variables, age, racial or ethnic origin 226 , socio -
economic, lifestyle and behavioural factors, genetic predisposition into research design, 
data collection and analysis, to ensure inclusive and generalisable findings enhancing the 
effectiveness of screening, diagnostic, and prevention strategies across diverse 
population groups. 
• Organise high-impact, targeted events with clear objectives to promote a multi -sectorial 
approach, fostering collaboration among healthcare providers, researchers, civil society, 
patients' organisations, and policymakers 
• Work with health experts to develop the capacities for implementing standardised 
screening protocols and methods. 
• Develop a comprehensive dissemination strategy and stakeholder engagement plan to 
share findings and promote the results, utilising online platforms and social media to 
reach a broad audience. Complement with long -term engagement mechanisms such as 
policy briefings or partnerships with EU-level dissemination networks.  
The applicants should ensure adequate involvement across the project lifespan of all relevant 
stakeholders and value chain actors including industry, healthcare professionals, scientists, 
patients’ associations to ensure performance and sustainability and maximise the final impact. 
This topic requires the effective contribution of social sciences and humanities (SSH) 
disciplines and the involvement of SSH experts and institutions, in order to meaningfully 
enhance the societal impact of the related research activities.