HORIZON-HLTH-2026-01-TOOL-05: Pilot actions for follow -on funding: Leveraging 
EU-funded collaborative research in regenerative medicine 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
6.00 and 8.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 29.50 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The proposals must be based on results generated within a prior multi -
beneficiary project funded under Horizon 2020 or Horizon Europe 
Framework Programme. This project must have been completed 
maximum 3 years before the submission deadline. 
Applicants must explicitly state in their proposal the prior multi -
beneficiary project concerned. Projects funded under Marie 
Sklodowska-Curie Actions are not considered eligible. Projects funded 
under co -funded European Partnerships or ERANETs are considered 
eligible. Ongoing projects366 are not considered eligible. 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in the 
United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 
4 (Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 367. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Developing and using new tools, 
technologies and digital solutions for a healthy society”. To that end, proposals under this 
topic should aim to deliver results that are directed at, tailored towards and contributing to all 
the following expected outcomes: 
• The overall competitiveness of the EU biotechnology sector is strengthened through the 
further development of closer-to-deployment health innovations. 
• The EU benefits from greater impact of the EU’s Research and Innovation (R&I) 
Framework Programmes through successful leveraging of previous EU funding in the 
field of regenerative medicine. 
• EU innovators secure further funding to finalise the last stages of development. 
• Patients benefit faster from solutions that improve their health and wellbeing.  
 
Scope: R&I is essential for economic growth and boosting the competitiveness of the EU's 
life sciences sector. Through the Horizon 2020 and Horizon Europe Framework Programmes, 
the EU has supported projects that significantly impact our health by fostering scientific 
discoveries and developing new solutions. Transformational health innovations, such as 
mRNA vaccines, highlight the importance of collaboration among businesses, research 
institutions, and healthcare providers. Furthermore, sustained funding throughout the entire 
value chain is crucial for maximising impact and ensuring more products reach patients faster. 
The main aim of this topic is to pilot a follow -on funding mechanism, supporting the stepwise 
development of biotech innovations through collaboration, resulting from previously 
supported EU R&I actions in the field of health. This topic contributes to strengthening the 
R&I ecosystem within the EU and supports the implementation of the “Strategy for European 
Life Sciences”368. Given the importance of biotechnology as a critical technology369, this topic 
aims to ensure that promising research results are efficiently taken further along the value 
chain, speeding the time to market or patient through stepwise funding and increasing the 
EU’s competitiveness. The chosen area of focus is regenerative medicine as it has the 
potential to heal or replace tissues and organs damaged by age, disease, or trauma, as well as 
to normalise congenital defects. Proposals should focus on prototyping, demonstrating and 
validating health innovations from TRL 5, moving beyond early -stage research to clinical 
development, testing, or eventual large -scale manufacturing. The previously funded EU 
research on which the proposal is build should be applicable to the field of regenerative 
medicine and should have clear exploitation potential and/or socio -economic benefits for the 
patients. 
Applicants are expected to: 
• Demonstrate in their proposal that the health product, therapy or service, has been 
successfully validated at preclinical level in the prior EU funded project and provide 
justification of the innovation potential with qualitative and quantitative data (e.g. 
publications, patent/trademark/design applications, spin -out/start-up track record, 
regulatory procedures, venture capital pitches, funds raised etc). 
• Justify the proposed composition of the consortium and explain how this differs from the 
previous grant, and demonstrate how the health product, therapy or service to be 
developed further qualifies as regenerative medicine. 
• Demonstrate adequate protection of the idea or Intellectual Property Rights or ensure 
freedom to operate until full deployment. 
• Have a clear vision on the intended pathway to patients and/or route to market, including 
regulatory compliance. This includes defining specific milestones together with concrete 
 
and verifiable Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to assess progress towards the market 
or healthcare settings. 
• Identify the target patient group(s) (how many patients to be treated during the project 
and the potential patient population that could benefit) and product development 
milestones including a financial plan (for each milestone).  
In the case of innovations with commercial potential, proposals should present the investor 
and market readiness towards commercialisation and deployment (market research, value 
proposition, business case and business model, prospects for growth, intellectual property 
protection, competitor analysis etc.) as well as aspects of regulation, certification and 
standardisation and reimbursement. 
In the case of innovations with evidenced limited commercial potential but high patient 
benefit, proposals should contain a deployment and sustainability plan including aspects 
related to regulations, certification and standardisation and patient access through healthcare 
providers. 
Proposals should take into account sex, gender, age and other relevant socio -demographic 
variables to ensure the scientific robustness, clinical value and applicability of the targeted 
regenerative medicine innovation. 
Applicants should provide details of their clinical studies 370 in the dedicated annex using the 
template provided in the submission system. As proposals under this topic are expected to 
include clinical studies, the use of the template is strongly encouraged.