HORIZON-HLTH-2026-01-TOOL-07: Establishing a European network of Centres of 
Excellence (CoEs) for Advanced Therapies Medicinal Products (ATMPs) 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 3.90 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 3.90 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, legal entities established in the 
United States of America may exceptionally participate as a beneficiary 
or affiliated entity, and are eligible to receive Union funding. 
Coordinators of projects must be legal entities established in an EU 
Member State or Associated Country. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or as 
an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 
4 (Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Eligible proposals submitted under this topic and exceeding all the 
evaluation thresholds will be awarded a STEP Seal 375. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 376. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Developing and using new tools, 
 
technologies and digital solutions for a healthy society”. To that end, proposals under this 
topic should aim to deliver results that are directed at, tailored towards and contributing to all 
the following expected outcomes: 
• In line with the objectives of the “Strategy for European Life Sciences” 377, the EU 
successfully translates a strategic priority into an implementable action plan for building 
technological and innovation leadership on a global stage. 
• Europe, including regions, profits from an increased capacity, accessibility, coordination 
of its Advanced Therapies Medicinal Products (ATMP) infrastructures. 
• The European economy benefits from more ATMP innovations being developed and 
commercialised in the EU. 
• Patients across the EU gain faster access to innovative ATMPs thanks to increased and 
focused public Research and Development (R&D) investment, harmonised policies and 
strategies for ATMP development and uptake in healthcare systems.  
Scope: ATMPs represent a frontier in medicine, offering groundbreaking treatments such as 
gene therapies, cell therapies, and tissue -engineered products that hold the promise of 
addressing complex and previously untreatable conditions. The European ATMP landscape is 
dynamic and promising, with 28 products having received marketing authorisation and many 
more in the pipeline 378. The development of specialised infrastructures in Europe for these 
cutting-edge therapies is crucial for fostering innovation and ensuring fast and efficient 
delivery to patients in an equitable way. The report by Mario Draghi 379  on EU 
competitiveness, highlights that the EU’s share of the fast -growing global ATMP market is 
small, suggesting that to remain competitive, increased and focused public R&D investment is 
needed to complement ongoing efforts to streamline regulations and ensure faster pricing and 
reimbursement. The report recommends building on existing innovation hubs and expanding 
the capacity of the EU to conduct ATMPs R&D by the consolidation of EU public funds. By 
strengthening this budding innovation ecosystem, Europe can position itself as a leader in the 
ATMP sector, ultimately improving patient access to life -saving treatments and stimulating 
economic growth. 
The EU has several scattered ATMP centres with divergent capacities and capabilities 380, 
limiting its attractiveness for scaling up R&D in the field, calling for a coherent and 
coordinated approach. The aim of this topic is to establish a European network of Centres of 
Excellence (CoEs) for ATMPs, building on existing centres and coordinating their further 
 
development in synergy with national strategies. The creation of such a Network is key for 
strengthening the EU’s capacity to develop, scale up and deploy ATMPs across Europe, 
increasing Europe’s attractiveness for clinical research in the field and supporting the 
implementation of the “Strategy for European Life Sciences”. The CoEs should directly 
support the development and manufacturing capacity of ATMP -related biotechnologies, such 
as cell and gene therapy platforms, manufacturing infrastructure, and scale-up processes. 
Each potential CoE should be an existing centre embedded within a vibrant biocluster (i.e. 
within proximity to pharmaceutical companies and research institutes) and should already 
benefit from critical infrastructure and services necessary to advance from lab to patient such 
as knowledge transfer support, state -of-the-art GMP 381  and clinical trials facilities. In 
addition, the centre should be performing the full spectrum of life sciences research, from 
discovery to clinical trials and should have demonstrated leadership in the field through a 
stand-alone research programme. Each CoE is expected to become world -class by further 
embedding itself in the full value chain and seeking additional political and financial support 
at regional, national and European level. The network should be limited to no more than 10 
CoEs across the EU, with complementary expertise in the various ATMP technologies. 
The proposed European network of CoEs for ATMPs should include multiple stakeholders 
beyond the research community and/or established academic centres, including Member State 
ministries, regional representatives, funders, regulators and healthcare payers, industry actors, 
patient organisations and policymakers. The European Commission's Joint Research Centre 
(JRC) may participate as a member of the consortium selected for funding, bringing its 
expertise in pre -normative research, standardisation, regulatory advice and access to its 
research infrastructure. 
To align with STEP eligibility, activities supported under this topic should demonstrate how 
they contribute to either: i) bringing innovative, cutting -edge technologies with strong 
economic potential to the internal market, or ii) reducing or preventing the Union’s strategic 
dependencies in the field of advanced therapies. 
Proposals should be of limited duration (2027 -2030) and cover at a minimum the following 
activities: 
• Identify common needs and challenges related to ATMP R&D, as well as develop 
relevant policy recommendations related to clinical trials, manufacturing, logistics, 
regulatory (including harmonisation of market access authorisation and reimbursement 
procedures), public acceptance, policies for transnational care, and coordination with 
national/regional healthcare systems etc. 
• Develop a roadmap to ensure that Europe becomes the global leader for ATMP R&I by 
2035, with clearly defined milestones, targets and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). 
The roadmap should align with national R&D plans and include a long -term funding 
 
strategy. Appropriate measures should be considered to expand or widen the network 
during the roadmap’s implementation. 
• Create an advisory board with diverse stakeholders, as a forum to provide guidance and 
advice for ensuring maximum utility of the generated outputs. 
• Develop common education and training programmes for the next generation of 
scientists including outreach activities to better inform i) the public and patients on the 
benefits of ATMPs and ii) the stakeholders about access to the CoEs facilities and 
support.  
Proposals should build on the experiences and outcomes of previous or ongoing actions such 
as RESTORE 382, Join4ATMP 383, PRECISEEU 384 and T2EVOLVE 385, and liaise with the 
relevant partnerships such as the co-funded European Partnership on Rare Diseases386, the co-
funded European Partnership for Personalised Medicine 387  and the Innovative Health 
Initiative Joint Undertaking (IHI-JU)388 as appropriate.