HORIZON-HLTH-2026-01-ENVHLTH-05: Support for a multilateral initiative on 
climate change and health research 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 3.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 3.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, legal entities established in the 
United States of America may exceptionally participate as a beneficiary 
or affiliated entity, and are eligible to receive Union funding. 
Coordinators of projects must be legal entities established in an EU 
Member State or Associated Country. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 
4 (Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 100. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Living and working in a health -promoting 
environment”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim to deliver results that are 
directed at, tailored towards and contributing to most of the following expected outcomes: 
• An international multilateral initiative is established to facilitate coordination and 
synergy between different research and innovation funding organisations tackling 
climate change and health issues with adequate support of a secretariat that works 
towards the definition of a governance model and forward -looking plan for the 
implementation of this initiative. 
• The international community of research funders working in the climate -health nexus is 
well connected and supported to improve coordination of activities and alignment of 
priorities and increase the collective impact of funding streams. 
• The research community, civil society groups and policymakers working in the climate -
health nexus are well informed about the initiative’s activities and benefit from the 
knowledge, tools and opportunities created during its implementation.  
Scope: Climate-related health challenges are global and complex in nature, which calls for 
coordinated action bringing together different research disciplines, policy sectors, 
perspectives and approaches. This requires seamless communication and synergies between 
different Research and Innovation (R&I) funding instruments. 
R&I is key to increasing our understanding of existing and emerging climate -related 
vulnerabilities experienced by populations and health systems alike, as well as to supporting 
the development and implementation of effective and sustainable interventions for prevention, 
adaptation and preparedness against climate -related health threats. They also play a crucial 
role in supporting the health sector’s transition towards decarbonisation and long -term 
sustainability while ensuring that quality of care is maintained or improved. 
R&I funding schemes and programmes will structure and accelerate the health response 
needed to meet the severity of the climate crisis in the decades to come. Achieving this 
requires building on a truly collaborative and impactful network of key players that optimally 
and efficiently structure and align their research programmes and funding streams. 
The Commission, in collaboration with other funders and international organisations, will 
work on the development of a collaborative interface that brings together research funders 
 
from around the world working at the intersection of health and climate. This platform will 
establish opportunities for participating organisations to discuss challenges and priorities and 
share best practices, research strategies and implementation plans. The platform will also 
serve to identify areas of common interest for collaboration and to build a shared vision to 
support health and climate research globally. 
Proposals under this topic should focus on the provision of administrative and technical 
support to the successful establishment and implementation of a multilateral initiative of 
research and innovation funders working in climate change and health. 
More specifically, proposals are expected to focus on all the following activities: 
• Build on the preparatory work done and further support exchanges between relevant 
parties to delineate the operational structure and governance model of the multilateral 
initiative, in close collaboration with the European Commission. 
• Facilitate and support the drafting of the workplan for the first period of activities of the 
multilateral initiative. 
• Provide administrative and organisational support to the board of the multilateral 
initiative, in close collaboration with the chairs of the initiative. 
• Provide scientific and technical support in aspects relevant to the development and 
implementation of the multilateral initiative. 
• Facilitate communication between members of the initiative as well as with external 
stakeholders and organisations, and support the organisation of necessary meetings and 
the preparation of supporting material. 
• Support external communication activities such as the creation of a website, newsletters, 
social media outreach and any other relevant communication and dissemination 
materials to promote the multilateral initiative.