HORIZON-HLTH-2027-01-IND-01: Development of cell -free protein synthesis 
platforms for discovery and/or production of biologicals 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2027/1) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
6.00 and 8.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 24.50 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility conditions The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in 
the United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, 
navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must 
make use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and 
services may additionally be used). 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
 
exceptions apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) 
and 4 (Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Maintaining an innovative, sustainable, and 
competitive EU health industry”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim to deliver 
results that are directed at, tailored towards and contributing to all the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Biopharmaceutical industries get access to streamlined development and production 
processes for peptide- or protein-based biologicals. 
• Health systems benefit from the availability of enhanced or decentralised production 
systems for innovative health technologies that involve peptides or proteins, and which 
improve health and care. 
• Citizens and patients will benefit from better access, availability and affordability of 
pharmaceuticals based on biologicals.  
Scope: Cell-Free Protein Synthesis (CFPS) has been employed in fundamental biological 
research for decades, however, interest for the approach as a viable means for drug 
development and production has only emerged in recent years. The advantages that CFPS 
provides in terms of efficiency, simplicity, flexibility, cost - and time savings outweigh the 
hurdles that are still to be overcome for CFPS to become a routine manufacturing system for 
peptide- or protein-based biologicals. 
Currently, there are several CFPS systems used that are either based on prokaryotic or 
eukaryotic cell lysates (including mammalian) or fully synthetic systems consisting of all the 
molecular machinery necessary to create functional proteins. The choice of a specific lysate is 
dictated by the target protein and the end -use application. Proteins that require post -
translational modification are generally produced using lysates of mammalian cells. Hence 
systems based on mammalian cells are of particular intere st as they combine properties 
inherent to eukaryotic cells and their ability to produce human -like glycosylated proteins with 
the advantages of cell -free synthesis. These proteins include antibody fragments, antigens, 
virus-like particles, cytokines, enzymes, antimicrobial peptides and proteins containing non -
natural amino acids. The benefits of CFPS are manifold, from ease of handling and 
scalability, on -demand launch of production, ability to rapidly switch products, simplified 
purification to facilitated  standardisation and quality control. CFPS needs less energy 
resources, the manufacturing footprint is less complex and smaller than in cell cultivation and 
it enables production of proteins that have toxic effects on cells. In addition, CFPS has the 
potential as an enabling technology for personalised medicines and is amenable to 
decentralised manufacturing. CFPS has gained even more interest in the recent past owing to 
advances in synthetic biology and thanks to the rise of Machine -Learning/Artificial 
Intelligence (ML/AI). The use of generative deep learning and artificial intelligence has high 
potential in the de-novo design of biomolecules with specific properties of therapeutic and/or 
preventive nature. CFPS offers here great opportunities to increase the throughput in 
screening of the de-novo created biomolecules. 
The application of synthetic biology, potentially also combined with generative AI, and cell -
free biosynthesis open up new avenues for the design, discovery and manufacture of 
therapeutics not only against infectious diseases, but also non -communicable diseases and 
equally for vaccines. 
Proposals should address at least two of the following elements: 
• Address the bottlenecks that currently hamper the large -scale deployment of CFPS, i.e. 
the lack of a quality -by-design approach, the need to fully characterise the underlying 
cell lysates and their critical quality attributes and the need for better understanding of 
the correlations between specific cell lysate properties and CFPS process parameters, 
specific product quality attributes (such as protein folding), and CFPS platform 
performance. 
• Use synthetic biology techniques for the design of de-novo biomolecules with specific 
desired properties (antimicrobial, immunogenic, angiogenic, etc.) and develop suitable 
cell-free systems for the high-throughput screening of the designed biomolecules. 
• Develop novel or optimise existing CFPS platforms for the production of the targeted 
biomolecule to a Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) 445 conform process, producing 
clinical-grade material that can be tested in clinical trials.  
The demonstration of the superiority of the developed CFPS platform as compared to the 
current state-of-the art production system for a specific therapeutic peptide or protein would 
be an asset and participation of start -ups, micro, small and medium -sized enterprises 
(SMEs)446 is encouraged. 
Applicants envisaging to include clinical studies 447 should provide details of their clinical 
studies in the dedicated annex using the template provided in the submission system. 
 
