HORIZON-HLTH-2027-01-DISEASE-05: Development of novel small molecule 
antiviral therapeutics for pathogens with epidemic potential 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2027/1) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
9.00 and 11.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 44.20 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in the 
United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) and 
4 (Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced project portfolio covering the viruses/groups of 
viruses targeted in this topic243, grants will be awarded (within available 
budget) to proposals not only in order of ranking but at least also to 
those proposals that are the highest ranked within different 
viruses/groups of viruses targeted, provided that the proposals attain all 
thresholds. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Tackling diseases and reducing disease 
burden”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim to deliver results that are directed 
at, tailored towards and contributing to all the following expected outcomes: 
• The scientific and clinical communities have a better understanding of and access to 
experimental antivirals for the prevention and treatment of emerging or re -emerging 
viral infections, as well as for further clinical investigation. 
• Candidate antiviral therapies are available to treat patients for emerging and re -emerging 
viral infections, increasing therapeutic options for clinical deployment in case of an 
epidemic or pandemic.  
Scope: Infectious diseases remain a major threat to health and health security in the EU and 
globally. Viral disease emergence is already being accelerated by climate change, and thus a 
proactive approach to the development of antiviral prophylactics and therapeutics in 
preparedness for future infectious disease outbreaks is needed. The availability of antivirals 
targeting conserved viral or host mechanisms would provide a critical preparedness measure 
against future health threats caused by (re)emerging infectious disease epidemics or 
pandemics, due to infectious disease epidemics or pandemics. 
This topic contributes to strengthening the Research and Innovation ecosystem within the EU 
and supports the implementation of the European Medical Countermeasures Strategy244. 
Antibodies and antibody derived proteins are excluded from the scope of this topic. 
Applicants should explicitly state in their proposal which of the following viruses/groups of 
viruses is targeted and the proposed work should address only this specific virus/group of 
viruses. The proposed work should aim to advance the development of novel or existing 
antiviral candidates targeting exclusively one of the following viruses/groups of viruses:   
i. Junin mammarenavirus and/or Lassa mammarenavirus 
ii. Tick-borne encephalitis virus and/or Japanese encephalitis virus 
iii. Andes virus and/or Hantaan virus and/or Sin Nombre virus 
iv. Hendra virus 
v. Enterovirus D68 
vi. Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus  
 
Identifying a specific virus/group of viruses does not preclude the exploration of these 
antiviral candidates' effects on other viruses/groups of viruses. Proposals should thus aim to 
diversify and accelerate the global prophylactic and therapeutic research and development 
portfolio for emerging and re -emerging viral infections, and to strengthen the leading role of 
the EU in prophylactic and therapeutic research and development. 
Proposals should address some of the following research areas: 
• Discovery and selection of candidate antivirals with consideration for intra-family and/or 
variant-transcending potential. 
• Optimisation of selected candidates to improve potency, selectivity, pharmacokinetics, 
and developability, using Structure -Activity Relationship (SAR) studies or equivalent 
methodologies. 
• In-vitro characterisation of antiviral activity, mechanism of action, and, where 
appropriate, resistance potential across multiple viruses or strains. 
• In-vivo tests in at least one animal model or, if available in human organoid or 
organotypic models, to demonstrate the protective function of the antiviral candidates 
and deemed sufficient for moving to first clinical trials. 
• If requested by regulators as pre -requisite for clinical studies, in -vivo tests in a non -
human primate model. 
• Production of batches of the most promising antiviral candidates according to the Good 
Manufacturing Practices (GMP)245 of the most promising therapeutics solution. 
• First in human clinical safety studies demonstrating a clear regulatory pathway for 
market authorisation. Attention should be paid to critical biological and social factors 
such as sex, age, ethnicity and disability.  
Participation of third countries where viruses addressed in the proposal are endemic or where 
outbreaks have occurred or are ongoing is encouraged. 
The participation of start -ups, micro, small and medium -sized enterprises (SMEs) 246  is 
encouraged with the aim of strengthening their scientific and technological foundations, 
enhancing their innovation potential, and exploring possibilities for commercial exploitation. 
All projects funded under this topic are expected to engage with regulatory bodies in a timely 
manner to ensure adequacy of the actions from a regulatory point of view. 
Proposals should advance research by leveraging already existing and emerging state -of-the-
art research infrastructures 247  such as those having contributed to the services developed 
under the ISIDORe project248. 
 
The projects funded under this topic should synergise with projects funded by the co -funded 
European Partnership for Pandemic Preparedness249. 
Applicants should provide details of their clinical studies 250 in the dedicated annex using the 
template provided in the submission system. As proposals under this topic are expected to 
include clinical studies, the use of the template is strongly encouraged.