HORIZON-HLTH-2026-01-STAYHLTH-02: Behavioural interventions as primary 
prevention for Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) among young people 
Call: Cluster 1 - Health (Single stage - 2026) 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
 
contribution per 
project 
9.00 and 10.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 20.60 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility conditions The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In recognition of the opening of the US National Institutes of Health’s 
programmes to European researchers, any legal entity established in 
the United States of America is eligible to receive Union funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, 
navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must 
make use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and 
services may additionally be used). 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The thresholds for each criterion will be 4 (Excellence), 4 (Impact) 
and 4 (Implementation). The cumulative threshold will be 12. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: This topic aims at supporting activities that are enabling or contributing 
to one or several expected impacts of destination “Staying healthy in a rapidly changing 
society”. To that end, proposals under this topic should aim to deliver results that are directed 
at, tailored towards and contributing to most of the following expected outcomes: 
• Healthcare professionals have access to behavioural interventions that can be used to 
establish and reinforce healthy habits and sustain behavioural changes. 
• Health professionals and educators have access to evidence -based strategies to mitigate 
risks of Non -Communicable Diseases (NCDs) for youth, with clear metrics that can be 
used to assess health outcomes. 
• Youth have increased individual responsibility through targeted education, digital 
services, including easily accessible tools for self -monitoring, and community -based 
support, stemming from increased collaboration between healthcare professionals, 
educators and families. 
• Researchers have access to Real -World Data (RWD) 59 , existing health data 
infrastructure and digital tools, including Artificial Intelligence (AI), which can 
contribute to the sustained success of behavioural health interventions. 
• Policymakers at local, regional, national and EU levels have new knowledge on 
behavioural interventions on NCDs among youth, which they can use to improve 
interventions in diverse European contexts.  
Scope: The topic is focused on behavioural interventions for youth, defined as 12 to 25 years 
old, for the primary prevention of the top NCDs later in life, where “top NCDs” refers to the 
most prevalent NCDs60. For the purpose of this call, NCDs explicitly exclude cancer. 
Implementation research should be conducted to implement existing behavioural 
interventions. These interventions should be evidence -based and have an emphasis on 
empowerment and self-management (e.g. health literacy, health education, health promotion). 
As self-monitoring is an essential element of self-management, proposals should include user-
friendly hardware and software for efficient self -monitoring (i.e. wearables and point -of-care 
devices for measuring various physiological parameters and other predictors and other 
biomarkers and the corresponding apps for easy readout and tracking, possibly also including 
gamification elements). Hardware and software should be interoperable in line with 
internationally accepted standards in order to avoid lock-in effects and assure scalability. 
Proposals should also include most of the following aspects: 
• Ensure that gender -sensitive and intersectional approaches are integrated, addressing 
potential gender-specific barriers for groups at risk of discrimination, as well as cultural 
and socioeconomic backgrounds, and should also outline how digital tools, including AI 
and RWD and biomarkers (e.g. genomic data, wearables, etc.) or existing relevant 
administrative dataset, will be integrated to enhance the scalability, personalisation, and 
effectiveness of interventions in the long-term. 
• Present a clear, evidence -based strategy showing how the interventions will be tailored, 
deployed, and assessed at individual, family, community, and societal levels, while 
considering social inequalities and lifestyle factors (i.e. nutrition, sleep rhythm) and 
ensuring a robust methodological framework for evaluating the effectiveness of 
interventions (e.g. randomised controlled trails, quasi -experimental designs, etc.), with 
clearly defined indicators of success of the intervention (e.g. biometric markers, 
psychosocial wellbeing metrics, physical activity change, etc.). Applicants should 
evaluate unintended consequences for all interventions. 
 
• Include formats that will increase collaboration between healthcare professionals, 
educators, families, and policymakers in promoting preventive health and should include 
plans for longer -term follow -up to estimate health impact and cost savings over time. 
Related to this, applicants should outline how policy changes related to the intervention 
(e.g. school meal programmes, safe urban infrastructure for exercise, digital literacy 
campaigns, circadian alignment, stress reduction strategies) can reinforce and scale up 
successful behavioural interventions, whilst taking into account how they can be 
replicated or adapted to different cultural, geographic and socio -economic contexts. As 
such, active involvement of key stakeholders throughout the study is strongly 
encouraged.  
This topic requires the effective contribution of social sciences and humanities (SSH) 
disciplines and the involvement of SSH experts, organisations as well as the inclusion of 
relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce meaningful and significant effects enhancing the 
societal impact of the related research activities. 
The proposals should adhere to the FAIR 61 data principles, adopt data quality standards, data 
integration operating procedures and GDPR 62 compliant data sharing/access good practices 
developed by the European research infrastructures, where relevant. 
Applicants should provide details of their clinical studies 63 in the dedicated annex using the 
template provided in the submission system. As proposals under this topic are expected to 
include clinical studies, the use of the template is strongly encouraged.