HORIZON-CL2-2026-01-DEMOCRACY-03: Government in transition – how 
governments change the way they work and prepare the civil service for the future  
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.50 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 8.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or 
as an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 25. 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes. 
• Country government innovation info sheets, trends, inspiring good practices, the most 
innovative solutions recently developed or work in progress for next -generation 
governance and future -informed public decision making in EU Member States and 
Associated Countries (MS/AC). 
• Policy recommendations for both EU level and MS/AC level actions on adopting new 
governance paradigms, and strategies for enhanced (technical and financial) support for 
internal government innovation efforts. 
• Publication of lessons learned to enlighten government officials and the public about the 
often-invisible internal innovation strategies and impactful solutions in national 
governments. 
• A comprehensive MOOC (Massive Online Open Course) for government officials with 
relevant examples and cases. 
• Fostering of closer ties and collaboration among MS/AC (and any other relevant actors) 
to leverage national capabilities in innovative governance and maintain peer learning 
through e.g. relevant networks and knowledge exchange platforms.  
 
Scope: In an era characterized by numerous concurrent crises, accelerated technological 
development, and waning public trust in government, the pivotal objective of this topic is to 
furnish a precise depiction of the current condition of public service in MS/AC, highlight the 
substantial challenges governments are endeavouring to manage at the same time, the general 
state of the civil service and the evolution of related public employment management, 
including HR policy, the organizational framework conditions conducive to innovation and 
agile operations, and organizational development efforts. Enhancing government capacities to 
define strategies and develop complex public policies in a swiftly evolving context is 
imperative. Traditional methods are increasingly ineffective, necessitating a reinvention of 
government operations. 
This investigation intends to shed light on the disruptions currently reshaping the work of 
governments, the complex tasks they are grappling with, their internal innovation efforts and 
change processes little known by the public, and to showcase the immense investment and 
good practices governments developed and are developing to deal with their core business in 
radically new ways. Governments take various paths that best suit their ambition, vision, 
leveraging power and the characteristics of their national context. 
Proposals are expected to cover all three focus areas detailed below:    
1. New governance paradigm:  Focus on new governance approaches and reforms in 
response to declining public trust, from preparation for crisis to anticipatory governance, 
agile leadership, using an innovation portfolio approach to strategic planning, working 
with the innovation ecosystem in strategic decision -making, the impacts of digital 
technology (especially the role of AI, automation, the redefinition of tasks, related 
opportunities and threats,), open government approaches, democratic participation and 
central communication strategies, information flows (including social media), and 
related civil service development governments undertake to stand the ground today and 
to prepare for tomorrow. 
2. Innovative approaches to public service and policy development:  Solving complex 
issues needs multidisciplinary (including from SSH disciplines) and innovative 
approaches to high -quality public service and effective administrative delivery, policy - 
and decision making, such as citizen participation, stakeholder engagement, systems 
thinking, role of technology/AI and interconnected data systems and experimentation 
(i.e. evidence-informed policymaking). 
3. New public employment management and civil service empowerment : Enabling 
governments to explore possibilities and transforming the civil service through 
innovation and public intrapreneurship, HR policy, including a public administration 
health-check, and capacity building (e.g. upskilling, reskilling, future literacy), the 
organizational framework conditions (also sensitive to the needs of the next generation 
of civil servants) conducive to innovation and building resilience, and cooperation with 
other EU governments (data exchange, mutual support) while building a modern, future -
ready civil service.   
While national governments in the EU and Associated Countries are the primary focus for this 
investigation, regional and local governments as well as documented, highly inspirational 
good practice cases from the global context are of interest to learn from. 
This should give voice to the civil service, examining how civil service officials (in various 
roles, functions and level of decision making, and in their diversity, including gender, age, 
socio-economic background, experience level, and other relevant personal characteristics) see 
the changing role of the state, their own role, organizational framework conditions (i.e. 
people, knowledge, ways of working, and rules and processes), how they cope under the 
current pressures, and what their visions, hopes and needs are for the future. 
The research should build on existing work (data, reports, case studies, networks) by EU 
institutions, international organizations (World Economic Forum, OECD, United Nations, 
Chandler Institute of Governance, etc.), schools of governance, national governments and 
innovation agencies in EU Member States and Associated Countries, complemented by 
primary data to be collected through large -scale surveying, in -depth interviews, strategic 
reflection workshops covering key issues in the public governance domain (e.g. the core tasks 
of government, internal innovation strategies, regaining citizens’ trust, etc.), and key 
stakeholder engagement. The proposals should elaborate on the planned collection and 
analysis of the primary data (beyond desk research), and on the proposed engagement with 
senior officials in national government, at European level and international organizations (as 
relevant), demonstrating deep reach into the national civil services as key factors for the 
successful delivery of the work. 
Proposals are encouraged to take stock of the uptake of provisions of Commission 
Communication COM(2023) 667 26 , and seek complementarity with relevant EU -funded 
projects, the OECD Observatory of Public Sector Innovation, and the relevant work of the 
Joint Research Centre of the European Commission.