HORIZON-CL2-2026-01-DEMOCRACY-01: Tackling gender -based violence against 
politically active women and LGBTIQ people 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.50 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
 
Agreements apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 15. 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• EU and national policymakers and relevant stakeholders get an enhanced understanding 
of the drivers of violence against women and LGBTIQ people who are politically active 
or political aspirants. 
• Enhanced prevention and early intervention through better understanding of the drivers 
and impacts of violence (short- and long-term) on women and LGBTIQ people engaged, 
or aspiring to engage, in online and offline political activities and how their participation 
evolves after experiencing violence and harassment. 
• Uptake of evidence -based policy recommendations by policymakers and relevant 
stakeholders on tackling gender -based violence alongside violence against politically 
active women and LGBTIQ people, promoting equal political participation and 
addressing harmful narratives. 
• Broader adherence to media guidelines on responsible, ethical, and safe portrayals of and 
reporting on gender -based violence in a political context, embedding gender -sensitive 
and intersectional reporting and incorporating successful practices with demonstrable, 
positive outcomes. 
• Promotion of an inclusive environment that encourages political participation of women, 
and LGBTIQ people, notably from underrepresented groups, through collaboration 
across key public, political and civil society actors.  
Scope: The increased participation and visibility of women and LGBTIQ people in public 
life16 coincides with a rise in two severe forms of violence: politically motivated violence 
 
targeting public figures and gender -based violence (GBV). 17  When these two forms of 
violence intersect, they obstruct progress toward equality, reinforce traditional gender norms 
and stereotypes, power imbalances, and pose significant threats to democratic societies.  
The EU Directive on combating violence against women acknowledges the impact of 
violence on women active in public life, particularly its silencing effect. The European 
Commission’s 2024-2029 political guidelines place the fight against GBV at the heart of the 
post-2025 Equality Strategy, notably to empower women in politics 18. The Roadmap for 
Women’s Rights19 recalls that women “face higher risks of threats and violence limiting their 
participation in public life”, while the Equality Commissioner’s Mission Letter identifies 
hate-motivated harassment and (online) violence as a key focus for the EU LGBTIQ equality 
strategy for 2026 -2030. The mission letter to the Commissioner for Democracy, Justice and 
the Rule of Law emphasises strengthening the protection of political candidates and elected 
representatives facing growing threats and undue pressure. 
This violence occurs in various forms, including sexual and physical threats and assaults, 
harassment, character assassinations, hate speech, disinformation campaigns exploiting 
misogynistic or anti -LGBTIQ narratives and deceptive image manipulation. With 
technological advancements, the methods of violence and harassment have moved online and 
become increasingly sophisticated and viral, exemplified by phenomena like cyber pile -on 
harassment and deepfakes. Their consequences, however, extend to the physical world, 
causing physical and psychological harm, as well as impacting professional and personal 
reputations, quality of life, and family. Proposals should, therefore, explore the wide range of 
impacts, including the chilling effect on victims, such as their withdrawal from social media 
public debates or public offices, including political ones. As situations of social, economic or 
political instability can exacerbate GBV and LGBTIQ -phobic violence, proposals are 
encouraged to explore how crises affect the nature, prevalence, and prevention of these types 
of violence, as well as victims’ access to support and justice. 
Both political and media spheres, including radio, television, print, and online platforms, play 
a key role in shaping societal norms. Yet, coverage of GBV and cases of LGBTIQ -phobic 
violence are often sensationalised and biased, particularly when it involves public figures. For 
instance, little is known on how fictional and non -fictional narratives influence public 
awareness and perceptions of violence against politically active women and LGBTIQ people. 
Such gaps can lead to inadequate responses and support systems, while reinforcing gender 
 
stereotypes and contributing to victim blaming. Proposals should gather data on this impact 
and counteract sensationalism and misogyny to position media as driver of positive change. 
Proposals should also include analysis of the impact and potential gaps of existing EU 
legislation such as the Digital Services Act, and provide recommendations to policymakers. 
Proposals are encouraged to explore cultural beliefs and practices, considering fields such as 
cinema and literature alongside social media platforms to explore how cultural representations 
and national context influence perceptions and responses to intersecting violence. 
In addition, given that politically motivated violence, GBV and LGBTIQ -phobic violence 
intersect with various forms of discrimination, including racism 20, proposals must consider at 
least three intersecting factors, such as disability, racial or ethnic background, age, religion or 
belief or other relevant intersecting dimensions. An intersectional lens is key to understand 
how the perpetration and experience of violence, including to report and access support, vary 
according to social, economic and identity-related characteristics of victims and perpetrators. 
A multi -country approach using quantitative and qualitative data is key. Proposals should 
draw on a range of relevant disciplines (including SSH), and engage stakeholders, civil 
society organisations and individuals directly affected by the issues in the design and 
implementation of research activities. Engaging men and boys in preventing violence and 
challenging norms should be an integral part of the research. This could include exploring 
how arts and humanities approaches can foster critical reflection on gender norms, violence 
and discrimination. 
Where applicable, proposals should leverage the data and services available through European 
Research Infrastructures federated under the European Open Science Cloud (EOSC). 
Particular efforts should be made to ensure that the data produced in the context of this topic 
is FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Re-usable). 
Proposals are encouraged to identify other relevant EU -funded projects, and to explore 
potential collaboration opportunities with them.