HORIZON-CL2-2027-01-HERITAGE-05: Re -imagining the creative economy: the 
interplay between the cultural and creative sectors and industries and the social 
economy 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society - 2027 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 3.50 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 10.50 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Legal and financial The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 139. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Evidence-based policy frameworks and guidelines promoting the convergence of 
creative and social economy models. 
• Case studies, indicators, and evaluation methods to measure the social and economic 
impact of CCSI in social economy frameworks. These tools are provided for 
policymakers and stakeholders, with areas for improvement identified. 
• Hybrid CCSI business models that incorporate social economy principles, balancing 
profitability and social responsibility, showcasing scalable examples across different 
regions and sectors. 
• Workforce development strategies addressing precarious employment in creative sectors, 
including alternative employment structures, skill -sharing, and professional 
development, and enhancing socio -economic diversity and mobility in creative 
industries, using gender-sensitive and intersectional approaches to address inequalities.   
Scope: The intersection of social economy 140 ] and the cultural and creative sectors and 
industries (CCSI) provides fertile ground for advancing sustainable and inclusive 
development across public and private domains. Enhancing synergies between private 
initiatives (impact -oriented enterprises, cooperatives, associations) and public policy can 
unlock innovative models, fostering hybrid approaches that blend public mission with 
 
entrepreneurial strategies. Studies highlight the role of social economy entities in CCSI for 
local development through ecological approaches, territorial clustering, and community 
engagement, as well as for improving employment and working conditions and promoting 
inclusive growth141. 
The European Commission’s 2021 Action Plan for the social economy, complemented by the 
EU Social Economy Gateway 142 , and the Organisation for Economic Co -operation and 
Development (OECD) underscore the CCSI potential for economic growth, job creation, and 
innovation. The OECD further notes that integrating social economy models in culture and 
creativity can stabilise employment, improve working conditions in creative industries, which 
often face precarious employment and limited access to credit, and foster sustainability, 
innovation and social cohesion 143. In April 2023, the UN General Assembly recognised the 
social economy as critical to inclusive and sustainable economies144. 
Embracing social economy principles in CCSI can address major societal challenges such as 
income inequality and social cohesion, while driving culture - and creativity -led innovation 
and inclusive growth across Europe. 
Reimagining the creative economy requires CCSIs to engage with broader societal and 
economic frameworks. This topic aims to enhance the transformative potential of CCSIs’ 
interplay with the social economy in Europe. Proposals are expected to investigate, develop, 
and test innovative frameworks and models that leverage social economy principles in culture 
and creativity to drive social impact, economic sustainability, quality jobs creation, and 
vibrant, resilient cultural and creative sectors. By moving beyond traditional market logics 
and adopting cooperative, participatory and socially oriented models, proposals will identify 
scalable strategies for ethical business, revenue diversification, and embedding social purpose 
in creative innovation. This may include developing technical or legal assistance and support 
services enabling CCSIs to access shared resources, enhance resilience, and build community 
capital. These efforts will empower CCSIs to catalyse inclusive, sustainable transformation 
and position Europe as a leader in a fairer creative economy. 
Key areas of focus are expected to be addressed through inter -, multi- and trans-disciplinary 
approaches (taking into account – among others – contributions by SSH disciplines), 
including cross-sectoral cooperation and stakeholder involvement: 
1. Sustainable Growth and Quality Employment 
• Analyse social economy models’ impact on CCSI sustainability, resilience, and growth, 
particularly during crises. 
 
• Examine how social economy principles address precarious employment, support 
alternative employment, and foster professional development, while contributing to 
creative entrepreneurial ecosystems for regional development that strengthen local 
economies. 
• Explore financing mechanisms, fiscal incentives and solutions to sector -specific 
challenges, to incentivize social reinvestment. 
• Investigate how social economy enterprises address socio -economic diversity, income 
inequality, inclusivity, and promote innovation including within CCSIs.145  
2. Innovation, local development and social impact 
• Investigate how CCSI social enterprises drive innovation (including social innovation), 
social participation, and empower marginalized groups and groups in vulnerable 
situations, such as persons with disabilities. 
• Highlight social entrepreneurship’s role in catalysing new business models and value -
driven practices addressing societal challenges 
• Assess CCSI social economy enterprises contribution to local development, social 
cohesion, and responsible consumption.  
3. Policy and comparative studies 
• Analyse and compare policy frameworks supporting the convergence of creative 
economy and social economy models in the EU and beyond.  
Identify best practices and propose recommendations for integrated strategies enhancing 
sustainable, inclusive development and innovation.