HORIZON-CL2-2026-01-TRANSFO-06: Making Europe a global magnet for talent - 
Attracting and retaining students, researchers and high -skilled workers from outside 
the EU 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 3.30 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 10.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or 
as an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 175. 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Generate rigorous, policy -relevant evidence on the factors that may influence students, 
researchers, and high -skilled workers from non -EU countries to move to and remain in 
the EU. 
• Provide policymakers and higher education/research institutions with guidance on which 
policies and programmes could be effective in attracting talented students, researchers 
and high-skilled workers from non-EU countries to the EU. 
• Develop actionable advice to policymakers and higher education/research institutions 
about how to retain talented students, researchers and high -skilled workers from non-EU 
countries to ensure a long -term positive impact on the EU economy’s innovation and 
competitiveness. 
 
• Provide evidence -based policy insights/options to improve the coherence of migration 
pathways for skilled talent across the EU. Support the development of more flexible and 
attractive mobility schemes, reducing administrative barriers, increasing accessibility 
and enhancing retention mechanisms to enhance the EU’s competitiveness in research, 
innovation, and cultural exchange.  
Scope: The EU’s ability to compete on a global scale depends not only on retaining 
homegrown talent but also on actively drawing and retaining talent from outside Europe. The 
Union of Skills, adopted in March 2025, aims to make the EU and the European Research 
Area (ERA) a global magnet for talent, to attract and retain brilliant extra -EU tertiary 
students, top -level researchers and high -skilled workers. There is still limited research on 
what specific factors and their variability across Member States and Associated Countries 
(e.g. academic quality, career opportunities, cultural appeal, political context or funding 
availability) most influence the decision -making process for international students when 
choosing destinations. The same applies to the factors that can make a destination desirable 
for researchers and other high -skilled workers (e.g. quality of life, wages, professional 
opportunities, integration and family reunification measures, support to innovation 
ecosystem). More evidence is also needed about: 
• How policies and programmes can be successful in retaining students, researchers and 
high-skilled workers from abroad into the EU (and into Horizon Europe Associated 
Countries) in the medium -to-long term. Projects should assess the functioning of Talent 
Partnerships. 
• How to mobilise the professional potential of humanitarian migrants already in the EU in 
the context of global competition for talent.   
Proposals should apply rigorous quantitative methods for their analysis of the 
abovementioned factors, policies and programmes and could complement them with 
qualitative research methods and relevant research from SSH disciplines. Proposals should 
also address the gender and disability dimensions of attracting and retaining talent. As the pull 
factors may differ among categories of migrants, proposals can choose which group to focus 
on: students, researchers and/or high-skilled workers. 
Cooperation with higher education institutions, research institutions, non -academic 
organisations and notably industry, and social partners, as well as clustering and cooperation 
among selected projects under this call and other relevant projects, are strongly encouraged.