HORIZON-CL2-2026-01-TRANSFO-10: Fostering cooperation and integration between 
SSH and STEM research and innovation in the EU 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 3.50 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 3.50 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 189. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Greater integration of SSH and STEM 190  research and innovation in R&I initiatives 
funded at EU level, national and/or regional level, as well as in R&I policies by 
promoting dialogue, mutual learning and strategic cooperation among research funders 
and policy makers in the EU. 
• Developing and maintaining a new, common, comprehensive ‘Monitoring and Impact 
Evaluation Framework’ for SSH integration in current and future EU R&I initiatives.  
Enhanced facilitation of knowledge exploitation and support to the cooperation between 
projects and stakeholders, as well as R&I policies involved in projects and other types of 
cross-border networks dealing with SSH and STEM research and innovation.  
 
Scope: As mentioned in the Report ‘Align, Act, Accelerate: Research, Technology and 
Innovation to boost European Competitiveness’ 191 , European RD&I can provide a new 
understanding of and solutions to tackle societal challenges. Social sciences and humanities 
(SSH) and Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths (STEM) improve the research 
activities, outcomes and impacts of Horizon Europe, because they enable a greater 
understanding of societal and competitiveness benefits. The cooperation of SSH and STEM in 
through trans- and interdisciplinary science is part of a science that is excellent, as it not only 
delivers excellence in the technical aspects, but also in taking account different societal needs. 
Thus, there is need for a leading role at European level for this cooperation. 
Proposals are expected to create an SSH -STEM Action, that focusses on SSH -STEM 
monitoring, SSH -STEM facilitation and SSH -STEM promotion, at European level, which 
should also include all the following aspects: 
1. Monitoring: 
Monitoring is a major aspect of the essential activities192.  
The action should create a new strategy in the first year of the project with the aim to develop 
and to monitor the SSH -STEM research cooperation (e.g. A.I. search tools). This monitoring 
strategy should meet the following requirements: 
• Applicants should provide a clear justification of what significant steps forward they 
propose regarding methodology compared to previous reporting on SSH -STEM 
collaboration (see relevant reports), data management, analytical methods, data 
collection. Robust open data driven approaches are strongly encouraged. 
• Applicants should describe what steps they will undertake to ensure the delivery of 
reporting on a yearly basis, which should include the data collection, data analysis, and 
interpretation of SSH-STEM related cooperation data (in EU -funded projects in Horizon 
Europe where there is SSH-STEM cooperation).  
2. Facilitation and promotion: 
Applicants should develop guidelines for SSH-STEM cooperation and support stakeholders in 
their projects when SSH -STEM cooperation is possible within the project, with a focus on 
increasing the quality and depth of cooperation and applying cooperation where most 
relevant. Applicants are encouraged to propose approaches, such as training to researchers on 
how to best integrate either STEM or SSH into their research. In addition, applicants should 
take into account the collaboration within SSH sciences on their own, as well as attention for 
not only quantitative SSH disciplines, but also qualitative SSH. 
 
The action should organize an annual event showcasing SSH and STEM cooperation; with 
exchanges with / for policy makers, best practice examples and showcasing funded projects/ 
programs at EU, national and other levels. 
The action is also expected to provide a quantitative and qualitative R&D evidence base on 
how to ensure that policies (including funding) aimed at stimulating research & innovation are 
appropriate for the sectors which have the greatest potential to contribute to Europe’s 
competitiveness. Applicants should propose evaluation metrics for SSH -STEM cooperation 
within research projects. 
3. SSH/ STEM Science for Policy: 
An important part of promotion is that the action acts as an SSH/ Science for policy exchange 
as well, providing the European Commission with feedback and advice on SSH -STEM 
cooperation, and informing the European Commission of the latest developments in SSH -
STEM cooperation (which is why the inclusion of SSH experts is of the upmost importance). 
The action is expected to be a forum that promotes dialogue and cooperation among research 
funders and policy makers in the EU (linked to the European Research Area) and beyond to 
further the integration of SSH and STEM in EU-funded R&I initiatives. 
The action should provide monitoring guidance in SSH and STEM cooperation in R&I 
programmes at national/regional and European level. 
The consortium should contribute to the priorities of the European Research Area, the EU 
Competitiveness Compass to strengthen the EU competitiveness and resilience. The 
consortium is expected to liaise with the two Cluster 2 co -funded European Partnerships and 
look into successful SSH integration projects and initiatives funded at EU level. 
The action should recognize the diversity within SSH disciplines and their differing levels of 
integration with STEM. It should include targeted strategies to increase humanities’ 
participation alongside qualitative and quantitative social sciences to ensure balanced SSH 
representation. STEM domain prioritization should be driven by thematic relevance and 
feasibility for SSH cooperation. 
Projects should adopt a gender -sensitive and intersectional approach when integrating SSH 
and STEM. This means considering a variety of societal needs and perspectives to ensure 
inclusivity and equality in research and innovation in EU and national R&I policies.