HORIZON-CL2-2027-01-TRANSFO-01: Impact of access to nature -positive 
environments in promoting social cohesion and reducing inequalities in urban and peri -
urban settings
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society - 2027 
Specific conditions  
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 193. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Policymakers and civil society organisations will have robust evidence on whether 
inclusive management of (peri -)urban environmental commons fosters climate and 
societal resilience, social inclusion, wellbeing and community participation, and whether 
lack of access to biodiverse green and/or blue spaces exacerbates existing social 
inequalities (e.g. poverty, marginalisation, and low community wellbeing among 
vulnerable groups) and people’s sense of inequality and insecurity. 
• Development of strategies and innovative solutions to quantify and integrate the 
distributional aspects of access to quality green and/or blue spaces into integrated spatial 
planning, accounting for non -market values when making decisions about long -term 
land use and (peri -) urban development with the aim of supporting nature 
restoration/preservation in the face of competing pressures and on -going change both in 
Europe and outside, while achieving a fair and equitable relationship between social 
groups and the environment.  
Scope: Proposals should focus on exploring and better understanding the relationships 
between access to quality green and/or blue spaces in the pursuit of social and environmental 
justice, community cohesion and overall social fabric. Proposals may also look at how to 
 
support fair transitions to climate -resilient communities from a climate adaptation and 
biodiversity perspective, ensuring a link to cohesion and social resilience. Targets, notably for 
urban ecosystem restoration, under the EU Nature Restoration Regulation 194 should be taken 
into account. Synergies with the EU Urban Agenda may also be considered. 
Research to date has largely focused on the benefits of nature on individuals (e.g., improved 
health, reduced stress), while more and up -to-date knowledge is needed on their effects at a 
societal level and across cultural, geographical and socioeconomic contexts as well as the 
range of functional needs of different groups. 
This topic aims to bridge the knowledge gaps surrounding a fair and equitable relationship 
between social groups and the environment, in particular the link between nature -as a public 
good and its role in fostering civic engagement that cultivates social cohesion, community 
wellbeing, shared identity and sense of belonging and place-making. 
Studies show that disadvantaged communities have fewer and lower-quality green and/or blue 
spaces, but less is known about the mechanisms through which access to nature -positive 
spaces strengthens cultural identities (at the individual and group levels), cohesion and 
resilience, particularly in lower-income communities and across generations. 
Proposals may explore: 
• The community-level impacts of initiatives aiming to introduce green and/or blue spaces 
and an understanding of how intentional design and planning can help improve societal 
outcomes throughout the community, with special attention to how socially vulnerable 
groups may be impacted, which types of natural spaces are used for which activities and 
what distance constitutes 'accessible' or sufficient to promote social contact. When 
considering the notion of access to quality green and blue spaces, researchers should 
consider not only the physical distance to these spaces, but other barriers such as the 
state of desolation of public green and/or blue spaces, privatisation, as well as cultural, 
social, economic barriers to access nature. 
• Knowledge gaps around the long -term impacts of lack of access to quality green and/or 
blue spaces, and how this amplifies existing socioeconomic inequalities, in particular the 
intersection with other determining factors of sociopsychological and mental wellbeing 
such as age, education, employment, housing, health, mobility and socioeconomic status, 
including aspects around ease of access, affordability and capacity to empower 
communities, particularly among vulnerable groups (such as marginalised urban 
communities, including migrants and informal settlements). 
• The role that community-based projects – for example those aimed at social participation 
and inclusion, environmental preservation, circular economy and food security, and 
preserving natural heritage (e.g., urban gardening, traditional ecological knowledge 
practices, rewilding, nature conservation, nature -based solutions and citizen science) – 
 
play in strengthening community agency, identity, place attachment, and 
sociopsychological, mental and material well-being and social capital. 
• The role of green and/or blue spaces in the mitigation of inequalities in pollution 
exposure, a source of concern in many disadvantaged communities. 
• The potential contributions of local businesses and social economy actors to the 
implementation of green and/or blue spaces, as well as the meaningful participation of 
individuals, representing different economic/labour sectors and collective identities 
within the community. 
• The contribution of nature to place -making and the ways in which approaches from the 
arts and humanities can contribute to how we understand place, and shape future places, 
in concert with local communities.  
Proposals are expected to adopt a gender -sensitive and intersectional approach to analyse 
differential access to nature -positive environments across population groups. Particular 
attention should be paid to identifying the structural and systemic drivers of these disparities, 
as well as assessing the social, economic and health -related impacts of unequal access on 
individuals and communities. 
Interdisciplinary approaches (including from SSH disciplines), combining insights from 
sociology, anthropology, law, environmental philosophy and systems science, are encouraged. 
Clustering and cooperation with other selected projects under this and past calls are strongly 
encouraged, in particular topic HORIZON -CL6-2025-01-BIODIV-06: ‘Assessing and 
modelling socio -economic impacts of nature restoration’, topic HORIZON -CL6-2023-
COMMUNITIES-01-1: ‘Enhancing social inclusion in rural areas: focus on people in a 
vulnerable situation and social economy’ and topics under the New European Bauhaus (topic 
HORIZON-NEB-2026-01-PARTICIPATION-03: Understanding inhabitant’s experiences of 
neighbourhoods to support their health and well -being, and topic HORIZON -MISS-2027-07-
CLIMA-CIT-NEB-01: Urban nature: supporting restoration of urban ecosystems, along urban 
transport networks and in the built environment). Participation by entities from cities that are 
signatories of the Green City Accord 195 is encouraged. Proposals should engage civil society 
organisations in the development of their actions.