HORIZON-CL2-2026-01-HERITAGE-03: AI integration in CCSI work practice: 
catalysing innovation and competitiveness 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
4.00 and 5.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 15.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 95. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties. The support 
to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Insights, recommendations, strategies, guidelines, methods and tools supporting full AI 
integration in CCSI practices become available to CCSI, policymakers, and stakeholders. 
• Scenarios for co -created solutions tailored to CCSI needs, utilizing quality data and 
federated data sources, along with digital infrastructures, and inclusive cooperation 
processes, become available. 
• Generally made available AI -powered and ethically designed solutions, tools and 
services in several CCSI areas benefit creators, cultural professionals, and society, 
including persons with disabilities and other specific needs, fostering innovative creative 
expressions and improving creative business models while preserving and enhancing 
cultural diversity, and inclusion. 
• By mastering ethical and inclusive AI, CCSI are empowered drivers of culture, 
innovation, competitiveness and societal wellbeing.   
Scope: AI technologies are transformative, providing unprecedented opportunities for human 
creativity, experimentations and co -creations. AI profoundly impacts cultural and creative 
sectors and industries, changing practices, facilitating new ways of working and making 
innovative services and products possible. Artists, industry players, and cultural organisations 
increasingly use AI, for assistance in content creation, production, and management, to 
predict trends, personalise market content, engage audiences, enhance cultural heritage 
preservation and accessibility, and many more purposes. 
Cultural and creative sectors and industries (CCSI) 96 need to fully harness AI's potential to 
maintain relevance, expand their impact and value, increase competitiveness, and keep their 
 
vibrant, inclusive nature. Embracing and co -creating ethical AI solutions tailored to CCSI 
needs will, among other benefits, enable the automation of low -creativity tasks, allowing to 
increase focus on high -value activities that enhance creativity and productivity, thus 
unlocking unprecedented possibilities. Production times and costs can be reduced, market 
reach expanded, preservation, interpretation and inclusive access to cultural heritage 
enhanced, and new job categories could emerge. 
Although several initiatives are on the ground, a comprehensive understanding of enabling 
frameworks and factors and of what is still lacking in terms of data, standards, infrastructures, 
computing power, tools, knowledge and capacity for the CCSI to fully embrace the 
opportunities opened by AI is essential for effectively integrating AI technologies into CCSI 
practices and workflows. Proposals should assess the current level of AI readiness in the 
CCSI, investigate the specific barriers to AI adoption in the sectors, and highlight areas where 
AI can offer the most benefits. In continuous engagement with the sectors, based on the 
analysis of current practices and through concrete use cases, proposals should produce 
strategic guidance to extensively and seamlessly integrate AI into CCSI operations, enhancing 
efficiencies, averting risks, and facilitating cross -sector collaboration. Based on this analysis, 
they should develop a set of tailored tools designed to address the specific gaps and leverage 
the opportunities uncovered during the assessment. These tools should be strategically aligned 
with the sector's needs, ensuring they provide targeted solutions to enhance AI adoption and 
maximize its potential benefits. They should be scalable, affordable for smaller, less -
resourced CCSI actors and accompanied by related documentation and training materials and 
documentation. 
Proposals should address one of the following two options, and are allowed to address both: 
• Develop scalable pilots for innovative AI -enabled products and services across diverse 
segments of sectoral value chains, in cooperation with CCSI. These pilots are expected 
to address identified gaps in CCSI operations and prioritise solutions that catalyse 
innovation in sectors whose business models are not yet taking full advantage of AI. 
Applicants should have flexibility to select their preferred application areas. 
• Design and pilot innovative, inclusive, ethically driven, transparent AI solutions to foster 
cultural and linguistic diversity, and enhance accessibility, with a focus on engaging 
individuals in vulnerable situations, particularly youth, older people, persons with 
disabilities and individuals with special needs. Applicants should have the flexibility to 
select their preferred application areas.  
Pilots should aim at leveraging AI for facilitating new revenue streams for the CCSI, as well 
as sustainable business models, and will highlight marketable solutions. 
Financial support to third parties may be foreseen, with the aim of engaging entities external 
to the consortium in the development of pilots. 
Consortia should include representatives of the cultural and creative sectors and industries and 
technology developers. 
Proposals should consider relevant policy initiatives, such as the AI Continent Action Plan 97, 
and build upon existing research and innovation outcomes, particularly insights and resources 
from Horizon Europe -funded projects focused on digital transformation, innovation, or 
competitiveness in the CCSI, and science -technology-art collaboration, and should liaise with 
the EIT KIC Culture and Creativity. Whenever relevant, they might make use of existing 
facilities and platforms such as the European High -Performance-Computing network, the 
European Collaborative Cloud for Cultural Heritage (ECCCH), the Common European Data 
Space for Cultural Heritage, ALT EDIC and other data spaces, European Digital Innovation 
Hubs, AI Factories, and relevant research infrastructures.