HORIZON-CL2-2027-01-DEMOCRACY-06: Identifying user -focused solutions to 
support news media freedom 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society - 2027 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.50 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 63. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Key data gaps affecting the news media sectors at European level are addressed and all 
relevant stakeholders dispose of an updated and comprehensive knowledge base. 
 
• Users’ consumption patterns of news are identified (online and offline). 
• News media organisations and journalists are equipped with better knowledge and tools 
to adapt to digital transformation, to reach new audiences and to ensure a more resilient 
public sphere, especially for news sectors that are of particular relevance for democracy.   
Scope: Free and independent news media are key tenets of our democracies as they keep 
citizens informed, facilitate civic engagement across all democratic processes, and keep under 
scrutiny those in power. At present, journalistic newsrooms are under severe economic 
pressure and they face increasing forms of political influence and threats against media 
pluralism and independence. Social media forces them to compete for citizens’ attention with 
other forms of infotainment, which sometimes entail unverified opinions and low -quality or 
malicious sources. This is particularly affecting forms of journalism relying on original 
content, which takes more time and resources to produce (e.g. local media, investigative 
journalism, public interest news, journalistic magazines, etc.). There is evidence of market 
failures affecting these sectors, with phenomena such as emerging news deserts, limited 
coverage of certain regions and/or societal groups and newsrooms closing. As a result, certain 
societal groups are underserved in the media landscape, so the proposed research will benefit 
from adopting an intersectional approach. 
There are still important quantitative and qualitative data gaps at European level that can help 
the news media sectors address these concerns, including accurate diagnoses of the challenges 
and opportunities for the news sectors. The Commission’s 2023 European Media Industry 
Outlook64 signalled that “the future competitiveness of this sector will depend on its capacity 
to invest and innovate, as well as to manage and monetise content and data”. Applicants are 
invited to contribute to enhancing innovation across the news media sectors, in particular by 
addressing data gaps, researching inspirational examples of scalable models and testing 
industrial models that can advance financial independence as well as editorial independence. 
This should include areas and aspects such as: 
a) providing comparable European consumer data, market data and models to analyse 
audience behaviour (including audience measurement tools) across societal groups and across 
Europe, so as to help news media improve their relevance, editorial quality, distribution 
channels and business models (including emerging formats, mediums, and technologies such 
as AI and XR); 
b) identification of market failures in news sectors of specific relevance to democracy, such as 
local media and investigative journalism, mapping of priority regions and/or themes, 
identification and analysis of business models that can address them; 
c) development, prototyping and testing of small -scale innovative user -centric business 
models that foster the involvement of citizens in high quality information production, 
monetisation, distribution and consumption (including community -based, local and accessible 
solutions, either physical or online); 
 
d) mapping and development of audience measurement systems, concrete suggestions to 
increase interoperability of tools and systems around common standards, and proposals for 
metadata taxonomies, to federate the news sectors and improve their negotiation power vis -à-
vis tech and advertising companies. 
e) sharing of conclusions and concrete, hands -on action plans and practices for the industry 
and policy makers, through regular consultation, interactive sessions, active communication, 
etc. 
Consortia should: 
• bring together academia (including from SSH disciplines), civil society organisations 
and multiple news sectors representatives (including influencers and other content 
creators); 
• where applicable, leverage the data and services available through European Research 
Infrastructures federated under the European Open Science Cloud (EOSC), as well as 
data from relevant Data Spaces; 
• ensure that the data produced in the context of this topic is FAIR (Findable, Accessible, 
Interoperable and Re-usable); 
• seek collaboration whenever possible with relevant projects selected under previous EU -
funded calls, such as the Horizon 2020 call topic TRANSFORMATIONS -10-2020 – 
“Evolving European media landscapes and Europeanisation” or the Horizon Europe one 
HORIZON-CL2-2022-DEMOCRACY-01-06 – “Media for democracy – democratic 
media”.  
Clustering and cooperation among the selected projects under this topic and other relevant 
projects are strongly encouraged.