HORIZON-CL2-2027-01-DEMOCRACY-08: Global Human Rights and EU values  
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society - 2027 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.50 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 68. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• EU and national policymakers promote and protect human rights and gender equality 
globally by developing and implementing effective mechanisms for investigating and 
prosecuting international crimes, and cooperation frameworks with third countries to 
ensure humanitarian assistance, security, and respect for international law. 
 
• Organisations in the EU Enlargement, Neighbourhood 69 and low - and lower middle -
income countries empower groups in a vulnerable situation and excluded or 
marginalized individuals, including, by promoting and protecting human rights and 
gender equality, providing essential services, and advocating for policy changes that 
advance equality and social justice, through enhanced capacity, awareness, strengthened 
partnerships, and effective reporting of human rights abuses. 
• EU and national policymakers integrate human rights considerations into trade policies 
and practices, ensuring that trade agreements, supply chains, and labour standards 
promote human dignity, equality, fairness and well -being, and prevent human rights 
abuses.  
Scope: The promotion of human rights and gender and age equality is a pressing concern for 
the European Union in today's multipolar world, where vulnerable groups in a vulnerable 
situation and excluded or marginalized individuals, including ethnic and religious minorities, 
people with disabilities, migrants, as well as women, and LGBTIQ people, face persecution, 
discrimination, and violence. The EU's response to these issues is influenced also by the 
complexities of global governance, trade, human rights and rule of law, and geopolitical 
interests.  
The EU's values and human rights are being tested in a global context, where trade policies, 
supply chains, and labour rights are increasingly intertwined. The impact of sanctions and 
trade, conditionality, and other measures on human rights is unclear, and the role of national 
and international courts and international organisations in promoting accountability is 
uncertain and increasingly contested. 
Moreover, the EU's external actions and Member States’ foreign policies have internal 
consequences, for instance undermining their democratic reputation and values if they are 
perceived as inconsistent or hypocritical, or producing negative impacts on European 
enterprises in terms of access to markets or to critical raw materials. For groups, such as 
refugees, women, LGBTIQ people, elderly persons, and indigenous peoples, who are already 
subject to various types of exclusion and discrimination and who might be further 
disenfranchised by the EU's foreign policy, this is particularly problematic. 
There is a need for research (including by SSH disciplines) to better understand these 
complex relationships and to identify innovative approaches to promoting and protecting 
human rights and gender equality. This includes examining the impact of trade policies and 
investments policies on human rights (including Global Gateway infrastructure investment 
strategy), and on the perception of the EU as a values -based actor, developing effective 
 
diplomatic strategies and cooperation frameworks, and investigating the role of national 
courts and international organisations in promoting accountability. 
Proposals may also incorporate participatory research approaches to enhance inclusivity and 
stakeholder engagement. 
Proposals are encouraged to identify other relevant EU -funded projects related to EU 
democracy support, civil society engagement, and international cooperation on sustainable 
peace and democratic governance, and to explore potential collaboration opportunities with 
them. 
The geographical scope of this research should include the EU Neighbourhood70 and low- and 
lower middle -income countries 71, with a focus on the Western Balkan and the accession 
countries. International cooperation is strongly encouraged.