HORIZON-CL2-2027-02-HERITAGE-09-two-stage: Open topic: Impact -driven 
research on realising the full potential of cultural heritage, arts and cultural and 
creative industries 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society - 2027 - Two-stage 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
2.00 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 20.00 million. 
 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Applicants submitting a proposal for a blind evaluation (see General 
Annex F) must not disclose their organisation names, acronyms, logos 
nor names of personnel in the proposal abstract and Part B of their first-
stage application (see General Annex E). 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The first-stage proposals of this topic will be evaluated blindly. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 157. 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to the following expected outcome: 
• New groundbreaking findings and methods are developed, verified and put into practice 
that significantly contribute to realising the full potential of cultural heritage, arts or/and 
cultural and creative industries (CCIs) 158 as drivers of sustainable innovation and/or a 
European sense of belonging.   
Scope: Applicants are invited to design the best possible and groundbreaking research and 
innovation to achieve that the full potential of cultural heritage, arts and/or cultural and 
creative industries as drivers of sustainable innovation and/or a European sense of belonging 
is realised. 
Applicants are free to choose the focus that best addresses the expected outcome; it can be 
limited to certain areas or issues or be broader. However, research under this topic should 
 
have an impact -driven focus and move beyond descriptive studies towards transformative, 
actionable knowledge. 
As appropriate for the focus chosen, proposals should build on previous research, networks or 
platforms. Projects must not, however, duplicate activities already funded but should explore 
new areas. 
