HORIZON-CL2-2026-01-HERITAGE-05: Creative alliances: Fostering global 
partnerships in cultural policies and CCI innovation 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 3.75 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 15.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to achieve the expected outcomes, of the action, the consortium 
must include at least three entities from at least one of the world regions 
identified (Africa, the Far East, South -East Asia, Latin America). Legal 
entities from these regions must take part in the project as beneficiaries. 
Due to the scope of this topic, legal entities established in these regions 
are exceptionally eligible for Union funding. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 101. 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Deepened understanding and comprehensive evaluation of cultural policy models, 
creative industry ecosystems, and strategies for promoting creative industries across 
world regions, identifying good practices, success stories and replicable models. 
Innovative practices, policy approaches, shared challenges, and opportunities for cross -
regional collaboration and global development of creative industries are identified.  
• International equal partnerships and collaborations are established to exchange cultural 
policy approaches, boost creative industries, and/or support collaborative production or 
co-creation, facilitating knowledge transfer and capacity building among participating 
actors.  
• Actionable strategies are available to policymakers, businesses, and stakeholders, for 
cross-regional collaborations that strengthen cultural ties, leverage creative industries, 
culture, and the arts as central to Global Europe, and support global culture - and 
creativity-driven innovation and resilience.   
Scope: This topic explores how international partnerships can strengthen cultural policies and 
creative industries innovation, promote cross -cultural collaboration, and support sustainable 
development and global relations. Proposals should examine innovative approaches that 
benefit partners worldwide while enhancing Europe's global standing through cultural 
cooperation. The topic has two distinct but interconnected focuses; proposals should select 
one but may also consider complementarities and synergies with the other. 
Focus 1: Cultural and creative industries’ innovation beyond borders 
Creative industries are gaining global attention for their multifaceted impact on economies 
and societies, driving economic growth, job creation, opportunities for youth, women, and 
persons with disabilities, while generating value and fostering wellbeing across regions. By 
investing in digital and green transitions, adopting ethical and open AI, and leveraging 
cultural heritage, the EU offers a compelling paradigm for creative industries worldwide. This 
approach strengthens creativity within Europe and can inspire other regions developing their 
own cultural and creative economies, contributing to a flourishing global creative ecosystem. 
 
Creative industries support resilient, inclusive, balanced and mutually respectful partnerships 
that create new markets and drive innovation, advancing a global Europe. There is a growing 
need to explore diverse approaches to promoting cultural and creative industries, fostering 
knowledge exchange and mutual learning to amplify positive impacts worldwide, with Africa, 
the Far East, South -East Asia, Latin America being particularly promising regions for 
cooperation. Proposals should establish pilot projects to demonstrate the potential of cross -
regional cooperation in creative industries, addressing specific regional challenges and 
opportunities. They may leverage the EU Global Gateway strategy to foster resilient, 
inclusive, and innovative global partnerships.  
Focus 2: International cultural relations for global resilience 
While often used interchangeably, cultural diplomacy, international cultural relations, and soft 
power each reflect different layers of collaboration and competition: cultural diplomacy often 
advance national interests through cultural exchange, international cultural relations 
emphasise mutual and reciprocal engagement, and soft power highlights the subtle influence 
of culture and creativity in shaping global perceptions. 
As traditional diplomatic channels face pressures, these approaches have become vital for 
enhancing mutual understanding, building trust, and fostering dialogue and cooperation across 
borders—even amid political disagreements. They promote societal resilience and peaceful 
coexistence by highlighting common values, easing tensions, and bridging divides. 
International cultural relations also offer opportunities to strengthen existing partnerships or 
forge new ones—important also for Europe’s own strategic autonomy —by leveraging shared 
values, cooperation mechanisms, existing networks (including the EU Global Gateway), and 
diverse cultural diplomacy strategies in today’s geopolitical landscape. 
Proposals under this focus should establish pilot projects  to test innovative forms of 
international cultural relations, such as initiatives fostering intercultural dialogue among 
communities experiencing tension or affected by conflict; collaborative artistic projects 
promoting mutual understanding and countering nationalism, xenophobia or conflict; cultural 
partnerships that avoid asymmetric power dynamics; or joint activities demonstrating how 
culture can strengthen societal resilience through inclusion, diversity, openness and how arts, 
design and cultural practices contribute to social cohesion. Africa, the Far East, South -East 
Asia, Latin America are regions of particular interest for this focus area as well. Proposals 
should clearly indicate the focus they have selected. 
Projects should establish mechanisms for ongoing collaboration that leverage each region's 
cultural assets and industry innovations to address global and local challenges 
Proposals addressing either focus may also explore ways to address unequal access to global 
markets and imbalances in partnerships within the creative economy, with attention to gender 
and other intersectional aspects shaping opportunities and participation. Research 
organisations, policy think -tanks, creative industries representatives, artist 
organisations/artists, tech communities, and cultural organisations from Europe and partner 
world regions are encouraged to participate. 
Proposals should involve CCSI representatives from the outset to ensure their central role. 
Proposals need not cover all CCSI but may focus on a specific area for in -depth analysis to 
develop a strong knowledge base and highlight strategic directions and routes to 
improvement. Proposals should explore synergies with other EU programmes supporting 
international cultural and creative partnerships, including the European Spaces of Culture, 102 
and may seek complementarities with projects funded under the topic HORIZON -CL2-2025-
01-HERITAGE-07. In order to achieve the topic’s expected outcomes, international 
cooperation is encouraged.