HORIZON-CL2-2026-02-TRANSFO-01: Co -funded European Partnership for Social 
Transformations and Resilience 
Call: Cluster 2 Partnerships 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
60.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 60.00 million. 
Type of Action Programme Co-fund Action 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The granting authority can fund a maximum of one project. 
Representatives of the EU institutions will be part of the evaluation 
committee. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The starting date of grants awarded under this topic may be as of the 
submission date of the application. Applicants must justify the need for 
a retroactive starting date in their application. Costs incurred from the 
starting date of the action may be considered eligible.  
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP). The 
support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants.  
As a co -funded European Partnership, providing financial support to 
third parties is a core activity of this action in order to achieve its 
objectives. Consequently, the EUR 60 000 threshold laid down in 
Article 207 of Financial Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2024/2509 does not 
apply. The maximum amount of FSTP that may be awarded to any 
single third party is set at EUR 3 million for the entire duration of the 
action. This ceiling is justified by the fact that FSTP is a primary 
activity of this action, by its expected duration of 7–10 years (exceeding 
a standard project lifespan), and by the extensive experience gained 
under predecessor partnerships. However, if the objectives of the action 
would otherwise be impossible or overly difficult (and duly justified in 
the proposal) the maximum amount may be higher.  
The funding rate is up to 30% of the eligible costs. 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Research funders, policymakers and research communities in the social sciences and 
humanities (SSH) are provided with a multi -annual R&I programme on social 
transformations and resilience, responding to megatrends like climate change and 
biodiversity loss, digitalisation, demographic changes and unexpected shocks. 
• Research investments on social protection and essential services, future of work, 
education and skills, and a fair transition to climate neutrality are increased. 
• Stakeholders, including social partners and civil society, and policymakers are provided 
with evidence-based knowledge, tools and innovative solutions, which contribute to new 
policies and strategies for strengthening resilience, fairness, inclusiveness and social 
cohesion at European, national and regional level.  
Scope: Europe is undergoing critical social transformations driven by macro drivers of 
change, such as climate change, biodiversity loss, digitalisation and demographic change, 
which have been accelerated by events, such as the COVID -19 pandemic and Russia’s war of 
aggression against Ukraine. These transformations bring challenges and opportunities such as 
changing skills demands and labour shortages, new digital and intergenerational divides, 
increasing inequalities and threats to social cohesion, and rising costs of social protection, 
among others. The magnitude of these social transformations as well as the heterogeneity in 
welfare systems and labour markets call for combined inter - and transdisciplinary knowledge 
and resource sharing, and long -term concerted actions, on the basis of a Strategic Research 
and Innovation Agenda (SRIA). 
Proposals for the co -funded Social Transformations and Resilience (STR) partnership should 
aim at creating a 7 -year research and innovation programme 164 which will make use of the 
potential of SSH to build resilience, ensure fairness and inclusiveness and foster social 
cohesion in the light of changes in climate, the environment, technology, demography and 
unexpected shocks. To this end, proposals should pool the necessary financial resources from 
the participating national (or regional) research programmes, with a view to implementing 
joint calls for transnational proposals resulting in grants to third parties. 
Innovations and scientific results achieved are expected to contribute to reaching EU priorities 
in the European Pillar of Social Rights, the EU Green Deal, to strengthening the European 
Research Area (ERA) and the European Education Area (EEA) and to contribute to designing 
better national, regional and local policies, in line with their respective strategies. 
An additional objective is to contribute to the implementation of United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals number 1 (No Poverty), 4 (Quality Education), 5 (Gender Equality), 8 
(Decent Work and Economic Growth), 10 (Reducing Inequalities), 11 (Sustainable Cities and 
Communities), 13 (Climate Action), and 16 (Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions). 
To achieve these objectives, the partnership is expected to launch annual transnational calls 
for proposals and additional activities in four interconnected impact areas: 
• Supporting the modernisation of social protection systems and essential services 
• Shaping the future of work 
• Fostering education and skills development 
• Contributing to a fair transition to climate neutrality  
The STR partnership is expected to organise activities along the following six operational 
objectives: 
• Collect data and evidence to measure social transformations, drawing from a variety of 
qualitative and quantitative methods in the social sciences and humanities, and use these 
to inform the development of evidence-based public policies and strategies. 
 
• Promote comparative studies to identify and share best practices and failures at regional, 
national and EU level. 
• Construct new, innovative ways to connect researchers with policymakers, stakeholders, 
citizens and social innovators in working together, communicating needs and results. 
• Develop social and individual experimentations at all levels (subnational, national, 
European) to better understand the impact of social transformations and public policies. 
• Encourage the development of new analytical, methodological and epistemological tools 
to better understand social transformations and resilience. 
• Build capacity among the R&I community and policymakers to adjust and strengthen 
social infrastructures and services in light of unexpected shocks.  
Proposals should build on the work of ERA -NETs CHANSE, as well as other relevant 
networks and initiatives, such as HERA and NORFACE, the Trans -Atlantic Platform for 
Social Sciences and Humanities (T -AP) and the Joint Programming Initiative More Years, 
Better Lives (JPI MYBL). By bringing together different stakeholders in academia, 
policymakers, social partners and trade associations, civil society and international 
organisations, the partnership should create a critical mass of knowledge and resources to 
implement a long-term SRIA. 
The partnership should engage with the following stakeholders: (i) National research funding 
agencies and ministries in research and higher education; (ii) ministries responsible for labour, 
social affairs, employment, climate and environment, where possible, as well as other relevant 
public authorities in the four impact areas; (iii) researchers from the social sciences and 
humanities and transdisciplinary fields; (iv) social partners, citizens’ organisations and NGOs 
at local, national and EU level, such as trade unions, employer associations, practitioners and 
non-profit organisations advocating for the rights of disadvantaged groups; (v) private sector, 
which may include employment agencies, providers of essential services, social 
entrepreneurs, and private education institutions. 
As the partnership touches upon fundamental aspects of peoples’ lives (work, social 
protection, education, and a fair green transition), it is instrumental to involve relevant actors, 
interest groups and potential end -users of the research results in the partnership’s activities. 
Gender and intersectional aspects should be considered throughout all activities and joint 
calls. 
EU agencies (e.g. Eurofound, ELA, CEDEFOP 165) which deal with issues related to the four 
impact areas, such as working conditions, vocational education and training, and labour law, 
as well as international organisations such as the ILO and the OECD, need to be considered as 
stakeholders, as they can provide important inputs and resources to the partnership. 
Collaboration with existing research infrastructures (e.g. European Social Survey, SHARE, 
CLARIN, CESSDA, Eurostat) is encouraged. This should aim at facilitating access to data 
 
(e.g. on social security) and making use of relevant datasets in the projects that will be funded 
under this partnership. 
The partnership is open to all EU Member States and countries associated to Horizon Europe 
and will remain open to third countries wishing to join. Partners are expected to contribute 
financially and/or through eligible activities 166, depending on the level of ambition of the 
proposed activities. The partnership should be open to new partners throughout its lifetime. 
Importantly, the EU contribution will not be increased. 
To ensure coherence and complementarity of activities and leverage knowledge and joint 
activities, the partnership is expected to establish synergies with relevant Horizon Europe 
projects under relevant Clusters of Pillar II, partnerships - such as the Driving Urban 
Transitions (DUT) partnership or the Clean Energy Transition (CET) partnership, the 
Biodiversa+ partnership, the Missions - such as the Mission on climate -neutral and smart 
cities or the Mission on Climate Adaptation - and the New European Bauhaus Facility, among 
others.