HORIZON-CL2-2026-01-HERITAGE-02: Boosting creative startups for disruptive 
innovation 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
5.00 and 6.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced portfolio, grants will be awarded to applications 
not only in order of ranking but at least also to those that are the highest 
ranked within each of the two options provided in the scope (Option a 
and Option b), provided that the applications attain all thresholds. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 86. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties. The support 
to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
 
• Deepened knowledge of specific factors favouring the growth of creative startups 87, in 
particular those with potential for disruptive innovation 88  and/or cross -sectorial 
innovation impacts, is made available and promoted to policymakers, investors, funding - 
and enterprise support bodies. 
• Effective methods to favour the growth of creative startups, in particular those with 
potential for disruptive innovation and/or cross -sectorial innovation impacts, are 
developed, tested and put in practice by industry, investors, funding - and enterprise 
support bodies, and relevant decision makers. 
• Examples of creative startups scaling up and/or engaging in disruptive innovation are 
made available, with a view to increase the visibility and recognition of the innovative 
power of Europe’s creative startups.   
In addition, proposals should contribute to at least one of the following expected outcomes, 
depending on the option chosen (a or b below): 
• The effectiveness of the methods developed is demonstrated by at least one creative 
startup supported via the action becoming a scaleup 89  in a Member State or an 
Associated Country. 
• The effectiveness of the methods developed is demonstrated by at least one creative 
startup or scaleup supported via the action succeeding in bringing a disruptive innovation 
to the market.   
Scope: The cultural and creative industries (CCIs) count a high rate of startups. Data indicate 
that CCIs are among the early adopters of new technologies, especially in the digital realm. 
For instance, the European Monitor of Industrial Ecosystems (2024) 90 notes that artificial 
intelligence-based technology startups were most common among the CCIs and in the health 
sector. Furthermore, creative startups drive innovation through crossovers with other sectors. 
They can be a motor of growth in local economies, unlocking opportunities, investment, jobs 
and higher productivity. That is why a host of initiatives like creative clusters, innovation 
hubs, smart specialisation strategies, innovation ecosystems, etc. foster the emergence of 
creative startups. Also at EU level, there are a number of initiatives to support startups and/or 
 
cultural and creative industries 91, and there is a clearly stated ambition to make EU the 
preferred choice for startups and scaleups, as expressed in the EU Startup and Scaleup 
Strategy92. 
However, in order to better support European creative startups to grow into scaleups and to 
multiply their potential as high -impact disruptive innovators, in line with the EU Startup and 
Scaleup Strategy, additional measures are needed. 
The challenge is to deepen the knowledge of the most important factors that favour the scaling 
up of creative startups in Europe and unleashing their potential for disruptive innovation, with 
a particular focus on those factors that distinguish them from startups in other sectors. 
Proposals are expected to focus either on: 
Option a: Boosting the growth of creative startups into scaleups. 
Option b: Boosting creative startups or scaleups with a potential for disruptive innovation. 
Proposals should clearly indicate the option they have selected. 
Approaches should be devised that boost the growth of creative startups in Europe and/or 
encourage engaging in disruptive innovation. Approaches developed may build on existing 
methods, such as shared technological resources/platforms to lower investments needs, 
credible assessments of technologies, IPR or of creative companies to increase investor 
readiness, matchmaking platforms, etc. However, the approaches to be developed under this 
action should be innovative and go beyond the existing ones. They should be effective and 
feasible across Europe under the current legal framework. 
In order to validate and refine the proposed approaches, projects should carry out at least 3 
pilot trials in different settings under real-world like conditions. These should involve piloting 
the scaling -up of a creative startup or positioning a creative startup/scaleup for bringing 
disruptive innovation to the market, according to the option chosen (a or b above). Financial 
support to third parties may be considered, with the aim of engaging diverse innovative 
creative startups, facilitating the uptake of solutions devised by the projects, experimenting 
with innovative approaches, or engaging other funders in co-financing. 
To the extent appropriate, projects should build on and take advantage of previous research, 
networks, policy initiatives and infrastructure at European and national levels. This may 
include building on results of or structures developed by relevant R&I projects funded under 
Horizon Europe or other EU funding programmes that focus on boosting the innovation 
potential of CCIs, the EIT Knowledge and Innovation Community ‘EIT Culture and 
Creativity’ 93 , or other relevant projects and networks. Such existing networks and 
 
infrastructures may also include business incubators or accelerators, venture capital 
networks94, etc. 
To the extent appropriate, the Commission expects projects funded under this topic to 
establish coordination mechanisms in order to achieve the strongest possible common impact. 
One such area of cooperation could be communication and dissemination efforts. 
The Commission estimates that a project duration of at least 4 years is appropriate, in order to 
be able to achieve the expected outcomes.