HORIZON-CL2-2026-01-TRANSFO-08: Strengthened implementation of the EU Pact 
on Migration and Asylum and a focus on inclusion, integration, and health 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or 
as an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 179. 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to either the first and second (combined), or 
the third and fourth (combined) of the following expected outcomes: 
• Improved implementation of the EU Pact on Migration and Asylum through evidence -
based insights in asylum and migration management, age assessment of minors, and 
resettlement frameworks, ensuring fair and efficient migration governance. 
• Insight into legal pathways addressing both EU Member States’ needs and potential 
offers of circular and permanent migration schemes in selected partner countries. 
• Enhanced health equity for migrants, including refugees by integrating robust health data 
into national systems, addressing governance barriers, and tackling intersectional 
inequities in healthcare access, identifying data/indicators on basic needs in health and 
sanitation, including as compared to adequate treatment. 
• Comprehensive evaluation of long -term social inclusion and integration strategies, 
providing evidence -based policy recommendations for labour market access, housing, 
education, health (including mental health), recognition of qualifications and validation 
of skills, youth participation, and social, political, and cultural inclusion.   
Proposals should state clearly which expected outcomes their proposed research will 
contribute to.  
Scope: The EU Pact on Migration and Asylum 180 has introduced several key mechanisms 
requiring robust evidence to support their effective implementation. Proposals should conduct 
a comprehensive analysis of the Pact’s components, including, for instance, the solidarity 
mechanism, the age assessment framework for minors, crisis and force majeure migration 
management, the EU externalisation policies on global migration patterns and the Union 
Resettlement and Humanitarian Admission Framework. This analysis should account for 
diverse national institutional landscapes and propose tailored policy recommendations that 
uphold human rights and enhance practical implementation. 
The landscape of health data concerning migrants, including refugees is fragmented, 
incomplete, and often of low quality. This situation is compound by political, governance, 
 
legal and structural aspects that challenge the effective integration and utilisation of available 
data. 
Proposals should map the existing landscape of health data integration for migrants, including 
refugees across national health information systems, evaluating existing data collection 
frameworks, methodologies, and technologies used to gather and integrate health information 
on migrant populations, highlighting potential systemic and organisational barriers. They 
should identify challenges and best practices that have successfully facilitated data integration 
while maintain high standard of data privacy and security and provide policy 
recommendations. 
Moreover, there is a lack of research exploring how intersecting factors such as age, gender, 
disability and legal status influence health outcomes among migrant and refugee populations, 
including older migrants. Addressing these gaps (including through a contribution of SSH 
disciplines) is essential for the development of informed policies that ensure equitable health 
care access and improve overall health outcomes with special consideration to persons in a 
vulnerable situation. Proposals should incorporate analysis of the impact of intersectional 
factors in access to health for migrant and refugees' populations. 
Beyond health, understanding the long -term impact of social inclusion and integration 181 
strategies, is critical. Proposals should develop comprehensive and comparative evaluation 
frameworks to measure the effectiveness of existing strategies at the EU, national and local 
levels, identifying best practices at all levels (EU, national, local) and particularly the role of 
small and medium -sized towns; municipalities and recommending innovative policy 
adjustments. Areas of focus should include labour market access, mobility options of asylum 
seekers within the Dublin framework, housing, youth and women participation, the 
contribution of private sector and non -state actors and the broader social, political, and 
cultural inclusion of migrants, including refugee communities, including the role of education, 
as well as linguistic competence in the language of the receiving country. Proposals are 
encouraged to explore the biographical dimensions of integration, acknowledging the personal 
trajectories of migrants, including refugees. Research should also explore the relationship 
between migratory movements and social identity formation, ensuring that integration policies 
are adaptable to evolving societal dynamics and sustainable over time. Proposals should 
incorporate quantitative data and sound methodologies to identify effective practices, target 
groups, and enabling conditions to assess integration policies and in particular labour market 
integration outcomes. Wherever relevant proposals are encouraged to include migrants and/or 
refugees as participants in their research assessing first -hand their experiences, needs, 
attitudes and opinions. 
Proposals may envisage JRC participation, drawing on its cross -cutting expertise in migration 
governance, social inclusion, and integration including from a health aspect. The JRC could, 
for example, contribute to comparative policy analysis, harmonised data collection across 
Member States, and evidence -based support to EU -level decision -making, utilising its 
 
experience in modelling policy mechanisms, analysing data and developing indicators, 
analysing inequalities, and providing forecasting and foresight on migration trends. 
Where relevant, proposals may consider citizen engagement and dialogue beyond migrants, 
including refugees, with a view to collecting broader input.