HORIZON-CL2-2027-01-TRANSFO-05: The effective use of artificial intelligence in 
learning environments in pre-primary and primary education 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society - 2027 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 203. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Provide policymakers and educators and parents with a solid understanding of the 
potential benefits, opportunities and challenges stemming from the use of artificial 
 
intelligence tools in learning environments in pre -primary and primary education, 
including with regard to their ethical dimension. 
• Generate rigorous, policy-relevant evidence on the impact of use of artificial intelligence 
tools in learning environments on educational performance and youth well-being. 
• Develop actionable advice to educators about how they can make an effective use of 
artificial intelligence tools in their work, including for the assessment of learning 
outcomes.   
Scope: The use of artificial intelligence (AI) in learning environments in pre -primary and 
primary education is rapidly growing. However, there is limited evidence on how AI can 
challenge and improve learning outcomes, enhance the teaching techniques and support the 
teaching profession and how automating administrative tasks helps teachers focus on 
pedagogy and teaching challenges. Most existing research is from extra -EU contexts, which 
significantly limits the transferability of findings to EU education and training systems and is 
often conducted on a limited number of participants and covering short -time spans, hindering 
the possibility of generalising its findings. Moreover, research on the implications of AI tools 
for equity and inclusion in education is lacking. There is also a need to better investigate the 
challenges that AI poses to teaching and learning as well as pupils’ well -being. AI is 
developed to increase human efficiency yet also comes with often unexpected risks and 
challenges, especially when being applied to child audiences. 
The research (including through SSH disciplines) could explore how AI can enhance 
curricula, improve teaching methods, and personalise learning through adaptive technologies. 
It should also consider the developmental appropriateness of AI tools for young learners, 
focusing on cognitive, emotional, and social growth. Research on AI’s impact on early 
childhood education and its role in supporting foundational skills would be valuable. 
Additionally, the research should emphasise the aspect of teacher support, including how AI 
can assist with lesson planning, assessment, and feedback. It should also explore training 
programs to help educators use AI effectively. Finally, inclusivity and accessibility are key 
angles to consider, ensuring AI tools are suitable for all students, including those with 
disabilities or from diverse backgrounds, and promoting multilingual and multicultural 
education. 
Longitudinal studies are also needed, as current research is fragmented and looking at the 
short term. Proposals should focus on the need to understand long -term cognitive, social, and 
emotional impacts, which requires sustained, multi -year investigations. Furthermore, the role 
of media and digital tools requires attention. Proposals should consider the devices and 
platforms through which children encounter AI (for example robots, tablets, smartphones etc) 
and how these shape interactions and learning outcomes. 
Relevant research questions to address include: 
• How can AI -powered tools personalise learning experiences safely and effectively and 
• What are the potential benefits and challenges of integrating AI into initial teacher 
education and continuous professional development programmes? 
• How can AI assist teachers in automating administrative tasks, allowing them to focus 
more on pedagogy and student engagement? 
• What ethical considerations and potential risks, including in relation to wellbeing, should 
be taken into account when using AI in education to support teachers and students? 
• What is the typical profile of teachers who are currently using AI -powered tools and 
which uses and perceived gratifications motivate using AI-powered tool? 
• How can AI tools motivate children to learn? 
• How can AI -based interventions address learning gaps based on individual students’ 
needs (including disabilities) and learning styles? 
• What changes do educational programmes need to perform on a pedagogical level for 
the successful integration of AI? 
• What do teachers need to implement the use of AI safely and effectively?   
Proposals can apply a variety of methods including rigorous experimental and/or quasi -
experimental methods, but also experience sampling and general survey methods, to evaluate 
the effectiveness of existing AI tools or to test new AI tools. Proposals should evaluate the 
costs associated with the policy measures or programmes analysed. Proposals should look at 
different forms of AI tools, e.g. Generative AI, Intelligent Tutoring Systems etc. Proposals 
should also apply qualitative research methods to cover the ethical dimensions. 
Interdisciplinary approaches and close cooperation with educational institutions and educators 
are essential. Cooperation with media literacy organisations is encouraged. Clustering and 
cooperation among selected projects under this call topic and other relevant projects are 
strongly encouraged. 
Particular attention should be paid to identifying and mitigating biases in AI systems to ensure 
equity and inclusion in education systems.