HORIZON-CL2-2026-01-TRANSFO-02: Open topic: Strengthen Europe's social model 
and sustainable competitiveness through productivity 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 167. 
 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• The concept of sustainable competitiveness is analysed taking into account the shifts in 
geopolitics, global trade patterns, as well as changes in climate, the environment 
(including biodiversity loss168), technology and demography. 
• Policymakers are provided with recommendations and innovative solutions, including a 
toolbox to boost Member States and Associated Countries (labour) productivity while 
ensuring high social and environmental standards and increasing competitiveness within 
planetary boundaries.  
Scope: The Future of European competitiveness report (also known as the Draghi report) 169 
analysed and discussed the reason for European declining competitiveness, productivity and 
growth vis -a-vis its main competitors. A competitive economy is defined as an economy 
whose sustained rate of productivity is able to drive growth and, consequently, income and 
welfare. Both the economy and the European social model have to adapt to the great drivers 
of change, including demography, technology, global trade patterns, climate, and geopolitical 
shifts. 
From its side, the European social model is the basis of the still high level of productivity and 
competitiveness in the EU, and without continuously upgrading it and sustaining it, there is a 
risk of a series of negative consequences, ranging from an increase in poverty, to a 
deterioration of human capital and a decline in well-being. 
Research (including by SSH disciplines) carried out should lead to recommendations to help 
Europe remain a world power through a high level of welfare, competitiveness and 
productivity, while analysing the tensions and opportunities created by the strengthening of 
the European social model and sustainable competitiveness through productivity. Proposals 
should look into possible opportunities and tensions between driving competitiveness, 
maintaining Europe’s social model and high environmental and biodiversity standards. 
Clustering and cooperation among selected projects under this call topic and collaboration 
with the Social Transformations and Resilience partnership are strongly encouraged. 
 
