HORIZON-CL2-2026-01-DEMOCRACY-10: Digital and media literacy as drivers for 
democratic and civic resilience  
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.50 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or 
as an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 42. 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
 
•  EU institutions and national decision -makers, have a better understanding of how to 
foster democratic resilience through media and digital literacy, equipping societies to 
adapt and thrive in the face of evolving technological, political, and societal challenges. 
• Citizens are empowered to navigate the digital landscape with discernment and critical 
thinking, actively engaging with media and other source of information, ensuring 
informed democratic participation.   
Scope: As recalled by the “Safer together” report 43, “over the past years, the Commission has 
already taken steps to counter hybrid threats (including foreign information manipulation and 
interference/FIMI) and enhance democratic resilience across the EU. It adopted, among other 
initiatives, the European Democracy Action Plan 44 to build more resilient democracies across 
the EU by promoting free and fair elections, strengthening media freedom, countering 
disinformation and FIMI and promoting information integrity. With the adoption of the 
Digital Services Act 45 (DSA) and its binding obligations for online platforms to combat the 
spread of disinformation, the Commission also strengthened the Code of Practice on 
Disinformation, which became a Code of Conduct within the framework of the DSA. 
Moreover, the launch of the European Digital Media Observatory (EDMO) and its hubs 
increased the capacity to detect, analyse and expose disinformation campaigns.”46 
The Preparedness Union Strategy47 underlines how preparedness is a collective responsibility. 
It also points at the need to make our democracies more resilient, in particular in view of 
strengthening trust in institutions, which can be crucial in crisis situations as seen for instance 
during the COVID pandemic. Groups in a vulnerable situation in particular, such as children, 
senior citizens and persons with disabilities, ethnic or religious minorities, LGBTIQ people, 
those suffering poverty and/or social exclusion, are disproportionately affected by crises, 
often exacerbating pre-existing disadvantages, barriers and inequalities. 
Disinformation is particularly harmful as it undermines public confidence and can exacerbate 
the impact of crises. Engaged, informed and empowered citizens are the best guarantee for the 
resilience of our democracies. Public authorities, schools, universities and training 
institutions, youth initiatives, civil society organisations and associations, social partners, 
businesses, local networks and communities, and citizens from an early age, all play a vital 
role in such collective endeavour, and the proposed research should take a multi -actor 
approach. 
Against this background, the proposed research should explore the complex and dynamic 
patterns of user behaviours in the digital age, investigating how individuals seek, evaluate, 
and engage with information online, and offline. Such an exploration will benefit from 
 
including an analysis of the emotional dynamics in the dissemination of disinformation and 
polarization on digital platforms. This is especially relevant in crisis contexts in which foreign 
information manipulation and disinformation can be leveraged to increase panic and 
confusion. Proposals should investigate how algorithms amplify emotive content, fostering 
polarization and undermining trust in democratic institutions, as well as crisis response and 
develop digital and media literacy strategies to counter emotionally manipulative narratives, 
such as populist and post-truth discourses. 
The research should also examine the factors that influence digital literacy, information -
seeking habits, and online engagement, with a focus on improving citizen’s’ participation and 
engagement through digital means (including through civic tech) and informed decision -
making. At a time when disinformation is used to sow discord by exploiting the fears of 
citizens, it is crucial to ensure that democratic decisions are informed by the most reliable and 
widely accepted facts and sources of information available. Research should explore the 
critical role digital and media literacy can play in fostering societal resilience and information 
integrity, by allowing citizens to navigate and resist misinformation and disinformation. 
Proposals should plan a critical assessment of media and digital literacy initiatives 48 to assess 
whether existing efforts are enhancing citizens’ resilience, or whether new approaches are 
needed to more effectively equip citizens against evolving manipulation tactics. 
Research should identify strategies to improve media literacy and digital and media literacy, 
in order to enhance critical thinking, promote evidence -based decision-making, and counter 
the negative impacts of disinformation on democratic societies. To facilitate the generation of 
practical solutions for educators and policymakers, the research could utilise computational 
tools, such as Social Network Analysis and Natural Language Processing, to map and mitigate 
the dissemination of disinformation across multiple platforms. This includes identifying 
Coordinated Inauthentic Behaviour and analysing both textual and visual content to inform 
media literacy initiatives. 
Proposals are encouraged to identify other relevant EU -funded projects related to media and 
digital literacy, and to explore potential collaboration opportunities with them. Clustering and 
cooperation with other selected projects under this topic and other relevant projects are 
strongly encouraged. 
The projects selected for funding are encouraged to collaborate with the JRC to seek 
synergies with its work on innovation for democracy and public governance.