HORIZON-CL2-2026-01-TRANSFO-09: Rethinking long-term care policy in the face of 
EU demographic shifts 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 3.75 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 15.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or 
as an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 182. 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Evaluate the effectiveness and resilience of existing long term -care (LTC) policies at 
national and regional levels. 
• Provide policy makers with scientific knowledge and data for evidence -informed 
policies to address the rising demand for affordable, accessible and high -quality long -
term care, with the focus on efficient use of resources, including human, financial and 
technological. 
• Propose new policy solutions to address rising long -term care needs and to ensure 
smooth (in)formal care transitions, including from the perspective of active and healthy 
ageing policies and the development of integrated care service provision at local level.   
Scope: In the EU, the number of people with long -term care needs is projected to increase in 
the future. In 2070, this number is expected to be 21% higher than in 2020.This increase is 
largely due to the acceleration of population ageing and also relates to higher needs for 
palliative care. At the same time, many Member States already struggle to meet all the long -
term care needs now due to workforce shortages, which are likely to aggravate in future as the 
long-term care workforce is itself ageing and the sector is not attractive due to difficult 
working conditions, limited career development pathways and low professional standards. 
Scientific evidence from research and innovation (including from SSH disciplines) is needed 
to help address the increasing demand for long-term care in the EU in the context of shrinking 
labour resources and increasing pressures on public and private budgets. 
In line with the European Care Strategy  and complementing the activities of the European 
Partnership on Transforming Health and Care Systems183, proposals should: 
• evaluate the effectiveness of existing national/regional long -term care policies in terms 
of meeting the current long -term care needs through sufficient and adequately skilled 
long-term care workers, making formal long-term care affordable, accessible and of high 
quality; in that respect, evaluate the role of integrated care and the interplay of long -term 
care and other social services; 
• develop robust methodologies to model projections until 2070, for long -term care needs 
and supply including in terms of workforce and types of services, and corresponding 
public funding needs for at least 15 EU Member States; quantify the cost of non -action 
in terms of impact on unmet LTC needs, health and well -being outcomes, and missed 
opportunities for economic returns; 
• identify and analyse innovative policy mixes, including based on social innovation, to 
address long -term care needs and long -term care supply challenges, with available 
 
and/or new public/private resources, including by tapping into the potential of 
digitalisation and new technologies. Aspects for consideration may include addressing 
workforce and skills shortages by increasing the attractiveness of the long -term care 
sector through improved working conditions and social protection of the long -term care 
workforce; the deployment of digital solutions including AI -based; investigating the 
cost-effectiveness in the use of public budgets for health and social care and the role of 
private funding in the sector.   
Applicants are encouraged to consider the data offered by European Research Infrastructures 
in the social sciences domain, 184 as well as the body of LTC policy analysis developed by the 
European Commission185. Where applicable, proposals should leverage the data and services 
available through European Research Infrastructures federated under the European Open 
Science Cloud (EOSC), as well as data from relevant Data Spaces. Particular efforts should be 
made to ensure that the data produced in the context of this topic is FAIR (Findable, 
Accessible, Interoperable and Re-usable). 
Applicants aiming to address the implications of demographic changes on health and care 
systems should check in advance which areas are covered by the Transforming Health and 
Care Systems partnership and what research the partnership is performing to avoid a 
duplication of efforts or potential double funding. 
Proposals should consider the involvement of the European Commission's Joint Research 
Centre (JRC) 186  based on its experience and with respect to the value it could bring in 
providing an effective interface between research activities and policymaking. 
Proposals should integrate a gender -sensitive and intersectional approach to address the 
diverse long-term care policy needs of care-recipients and caregivers. 
To maximise impact and avoid unnecessary duplication, proposals should envisage, as 
appropriate, cooperation with Horizon Europe projects such as the ones funded by the call 
topic HORIZON -CL2-2022-TRANSFORMATIONS-01-10, “Socio -economic effects of 
ageing societies” 187 and the HORIZON -CL2-2023-TRANSFORMATIONS-01-08 call topic 
entitled “Integrated care solutions leading to better quality, person-centred long-term188. 
 
