HORIZON-CL2-2027-02-TRANSFO-09-two-stage: Improving socio -economic outcomes 
for persons with dementia and informal caregivers  
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society - 2027 - Two-stage 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
contribution per 
project 
3.20 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 16.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Applicants submitting a proposal for a blind evaluation (see General 
Annex F) must not disclose their organisation names, acronyms, logos 
nor names of personnel in the proposal abstract and Part B of their first-
stage application (see General Annex E). 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The first-stage proposals of this topic will be evaluated blindly. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 209. 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome:  Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Persons with dementia experience improved social, mental and socio -economic 
outcomes through the development and implementation of person -centred interventions 
that enhance autonomy, inclusion, and quality of life. 
• Informal caregivers benefit from reduced emotional, financial, and physical burden 
thanks to evidence -based support measures, policies, and services that improve their 
well-being and economic resilience. 
 
• Support networks, long -term care and healthcare systems provide more integrated and 
accessible care for people with dementia and their caregivers through strengthened 
coordination between healthcare providers, long -term care and social services, and 
community organisations. 
• Researchers (including from SSH disciplines) and policymakers have access to 
improved, gender -sensitive data on dementia care to inform policies (in particular 
national strategies and EU aging policy), optimise resource allocation, and enhance the 
effectiveness of care models.   
Scope: Dementia is a progressive neurological disease. The number of people with dementia 
will double by 2050 in the European Union, from 10 million currently. As people with 
dementia lose their ability to care for themselves, care is often provided by informal 
caregivers, which mostly include family members, and more specifically women. In fact, 71% 
of the estimated time devoted to unpaid care for people with dementia is devoted by women. 
Women, especially those in vulnerable situations such as those from lower socio -economic 
backgrounds, often face additional pressures in managing caregiving responsibilities, which 
may exacerbate pre -existing inequalities. Furthermore, the provision of informal care has a 
negative impact on the economic and social life of the caregiver, as the time spent on the 
person with dementia is time not spent in employment or with other friends and family. 
Additionally, informal care is unpaid and has been estimated to have negative financial 
consequences for the caregivers themselves and the society as a whole. Studies have also 
shown that people with dementia and their informal caregivers have higher rates of depression 
than the general population. 
While there is a lot of attention for clinical research, there is far less attention for the aspects 
surrounding the economic and social life, financial stability and the mental health of persons 
with dementia and informal caregivers. Many innovative solutions have been proposed, but 
few have been implemented on a wide scale. Social public policies with different design and 
funding that take into account the substitution and complementarities between formal and 
informal caregivers have been implemented to reduce the burden of the informal caregivers. 
What is needed, are systemic interventions focussed on improving these aspects for patients 
and informal caregivers and addressing the gendered nature of caregiving. 
Priority should be given to scaling up and contextualising interventions that have already 
shown promise or effectiveness at smaller scale, rather than developing entirely new or 
untested solutions. Applicants should provide a robust methodological framework for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the interventions. Proposals should also assess the economic 
feasibility and sustainability of the interventions, including cost -effectiveness and potential 
integration into existing health and social care systems or policy frameworks. Proposals can 
focus on groups in vulnerable situations (e.g. migrants, lower socio -economic populations, 
people with disabilities) for gender -responsive and inclusive interventions. Social inequality 
analyses are therefore also recommended. Community based models (e.g. dementia -friendly 
cities, peer-support groups) can be included, as well as analyses of the quality of residence of 
people with dementia. Proposals are encouraged to include technology and digital tools in the 
scope of their work. 
Considering the already high burden of dementia, interventions should be implemented in at 
least four Member States or Associated Countries. Considering the focus, it is of the upmost 
importance that informal caregivers are involved in the research throughout (in the design and 
implementation) to ensure that interventions are tailored to the real needs of caregivers and 
the individuals they care for. 
Proposals should outline clear, evidence -based strategies for tailoring, deploying, and 
assessing these interventions at individual, family, community, and societal levels, while 
addressing the specific needs of different caregiver demographics. 
