HORIZON-CL2-2027-01-TRANSFO-07: Persons with disabilities: opportunities for 
labour inclusion and social protection through the life course 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society - 2027 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 205. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to two of the following expected outcomes: 
• Provide implementable, quality, disaggregated and evidence -based data to policymakers 
and research and innovation stakeholders to bridge the employment gap between persons 
with disabilities and persons without disabilities. 
• Deliver scalable and replicable inclusive person -centred interventions addressing the 
situation of persons with disabilities in relation to the labour market in a manner that 
they are transferable to the new contexts of work, studying and comparing their impacts. 
• Develop innovative policy approaches in the area of social protection for persons with 
disabilities to compensate the cost associated to disabilities, removing barriers for their 
participation and encourage them to engage in employment in the open labour market, 
while at the same time guaranteeing them an adequate level of social protection.   
 
Scope: The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 206 recognises the right 
to work for persons with disabilities on an equal basis with others (Art. 27). However, only 
half of the 42.8 million persons with disabilities of working age in the EU is employed, this 
being translated into an employment gap in which only 51% of persons with disabilities are 
employed compared to 75% of persons without disabilities 207 . In addition, persons with 
disabilities are overrepresented among those inactive in the labour market, not looking for a 
job due to different barriers, such as a generalised lack of accessibility of workplaces, 
inaccessible transportation, built environment and infrastructure, insufficient or inadequate 
reasonable accommodation, lack of flexibility in employment, administrative burdens or 
incompatibility with disability benefits. 
Thus, new and innovative ways of inclusion into the labour market of persons with disabilities 
need to be explored and tested with the objective to reduce the gaps between persons with and 
without disabilities, reduce inequalities and promote their social and economic inclusion on an 
equal basis with others. An assessment of the benefits, including for society and the economy, 
of employment of persons with disabilities could be carried out. 
Research (including through SSH disciplines) should address the disadvantages and barriers 
faced for increasing inclusion in the labour market of persons with disabilities, collect data on 
proved effective measures to improve the situation, and provide a thorough analysis of the 
impact and efficacy of existing policy measures, such as positive discrimination provisions, 
quotas, employment targets and others. The role of employers, their concerns and good 
practices for labour inclusion of persons with disabilities needs to be assessed, as well as 
reasons to circumvent obligations to include employees with disabilities. Moreover, 
discrimination against persons with disabilities during the hiring process and the impact on 
job retention could be addressed. 
Research should also take stock of existing accessible working environments tools and 
equipment, as well as reasonable accommodation tools and support at work already provided 
or still needed and their impact on the employment of persons with disabilities. The role of 
accessible digital services, digital skills and assistive technologies and other advanced 
technologies such as Artificial Intelligence (AI) and its potential for advancing the labour 
inclusion of persons with disabilities may be explored. 
Different types of work - adapted to the often -hidden talents of persons with disabilities - 
should be explored, taking into account their competences and abilities, disability type, level, 
sex and age. The transition from supported/sheltered employment to the open labour market, 
including different models such as self -employment and entrepreneurship, re - and upskilling, 
 
vocational education and training, could be considered, looking for sustainable pathways to 
facilitate the process and to be maintained in the long run. 
Persons with disabilities are at a higher risk of poverty due to insufficient labour market 
participation in combination with insufficient social protection and insufficient compensation 
for extra costs related to disability, including family -based care. The UN Convention on the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities recognises the right to social protection and to the 
enjoyment of that right without discrimination on the basis of disability (Art. 28). 
Thus, research is expected to address the issue of social protection through the life course of 
persons with disabilities, including different aspects such as disability benefits, possible in -
kind benefits, coverage of extra costs associated to disabilities, the transition to pension age 
for persons with disabilities or acquiring disabilities after pension age. Attention should be 
paid to measures that disincentivise or create barriers to the employment of persons with 
disabilities in the open labour market. Proposals should consider also the in and out of 
employment and the possible compatibility with other benefits, such as disability benefits 
avoiding the benefit trap. The benefit trap needs to be addressed since it may act as a deterrent 
to take employment for persons with disabilities, who may lose their disability benefits and 
may be led to in-work poverty. 
Data collection is essential to understand the employment participation of persons with 
disabilities and remains a challenge to collect data disaggregated per type of disability, sex, 
and age. Thus, applicants are encouraged to ensure harmonised data collection by using 
Eurostat standards and existing international sets of questions in their areas of research. 
Applicants are encouraged to involve persons with disabilities and their representative 
organisations, stakeholders, policymakers and public authorities, social services, citizens and 
civil society organisations, end-users and service providers. 
Projects are also encouraged to explore potential complementarities with projects funded 
under the Cluster 2 topic HORIZON -CL2-2025-01-TRANSFO-9: “Good practices for 
increased autonomy of persons with disabilities, including physical, mental, intellectual and 
sensory disabilities” and Cluster 1 topic HORIZON -HLTH-2025-03-STAYHLTH-01-two-
stage: “Improving the quality of life of persons with intellectual disabilities and their 
families”.