HORIZON-CL2-2026-01-TRANSFO-04: The impact of the use of digital tools outside 
school and for communication on educational outcomes and mental health 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 171. 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Provide policymakers, education practitioners and citizens with a solid understanding of 
how social media, video gaming and other leisure uses of digital tools relate to the 
educational outcomes of young people, including through their impact on well-being and 
mental health. 
• Generate rigorous, policy -relevant evidence about policies and practices aiming to 
inform and regulate young people’s use of digital tools for non -educational purposes, 
such as smartphones, at school. 
• Develop actionable advice for policymakers and citizens about how to promote young 
people’s healthy use of digital tools for leisure, both at school and outside school. 
• Describe and quantify the relationships of using digital tools for leisure and 
communication with students’ motivation, study habits, attention span and concentration, 
time management, engagement, social integration and overall well-being.   
Scope: The increasing prevalence of digital devices in young people’s life has raised concerns 
about the potential impacts of the use of digital tools for leisure and communication on 
primary-, secondary- and higher education students’ well -being and educational outcomes 172. 
“Digital distraction” is emerging inter alia as a potential threat to academic performance and 
several countries have started to regulate the use of smartphones at school. 
There is still limited evidence on the interrelation between the use of digital tools for leisure 
in-school or out -of-school and educational performance, in both primary and secondary 
 
education, because most of the existing literature is purely correlational, or only focuses on 
effects on well -being. Moreover, most existing research is from extra -EU contexts, which 
may limit the transferability of findings to EU education and training systems. 
Several interrelated research questions remain to be addressed, such as: 
• Which types of digital device use do pupils perform during school and do their digital 
activities differ depending on different contexts (i.e., during class, during breaks or 
between classes)? 
• How do different activities (e.g. playing games vs. chatting with a parent), on different 
devices, with different time durations of use, relate to students’ attention span and 
concentration as well as general school motivation? 
• How does frequent smartphone, social media use and other online leisure activities (such 
as video games) impact students’ attention span, concentration, memory and relational 
capacities? 
•   
• How can schools, educators and parents balance the use of those tools to enhance, rather 
than hinder, educational performance and students’ well-being? 
• What is the potential for addiction when using digital tools and what are the decisive 
factors for this on the part of the design of tools on the one hand and on the part of the 
users on the other? 
• How can digital leisure activities contribute to skills development, such as problem -
solving and digital literacy and what is the transferability of these skills into education? 
How do these benefits compare with potential harm? 
• What is the role of parents and educators in guiding digital leisure activities? Explore 
parental digital literacy and its impact on the use of digital devices by the youth.   
Proposals should explore the complex, context -dependent ways in which different forms of 
digital leisure affect attention, motivation, creativity, learning habits, critical thinking, and 
socio-emotional skills. They should consider variations across age groups, socio -economic 
backgrounds, cultural contexts, and types of digital engagement and include students with 
disabilities. 
Proposals should apply rigorous experimental and/or quasi -experimental methods for their 
analysis and could complement them with experience sampling research, survey research 
methods and qualitative research methods. Close cooperation with educational authorities, 
educational institutions and educators in analysing existing policies and practices is essential. 
Proposals should also include the opinions of young people and other relevant stakeholders, 
such as media literacy organisations, for example, in the  form surveys, interviews, 
consultations, as part of the data collection. Proposals could apply interdisciplinary 
approaches (including from SSH disciplines), combining insights from economics, sociology, 
neurosciences, communication science (media psychology) and pedagogy. Clustering and 
cooperation with other selected projects under this call and other relevant projects are strongly 
encouraged.