HORIZON-CL2-2026-01-DEMOCRACY-05: Research and Innovation Network for a 
Union of Equality 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
4.00 and 4.50 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 4.50 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 30. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Policymakers are made aware and are equipped with the knowledge and tools to 
integrate inclusive and intersectional perspectives into their policymaking, which 
strengthens their capacity to promote and protect democracy, fundamental rights, and 
EU values. 
• Researchers gain insights on how to translate their findings on intersectional inequalities 
and democracy into actionable, evidence -based recommendations, enabling them to 
effectively inform policy and practice at local, regional, national, and EU levels. 
• Innovative solutions developed under Horizon Europe and other EU -funding 
programmes empower equally all citizens, to participate in democratic processes and 
decision-making.   
Scope: This call topic aims to establish a Research and Innovation Network for a Union of 
Equality. The proposed network should bring together academic institutions, public bodies 
 
and civil society organisations to collaborate and promote the advancement of inclusive, 
equal, and resilient democratic societies. 
The proposed network should contribute to the development of a comprehensive approach to 
democracy, fostering a culture of participation and inclusivity, and promoting the EU values 
of equality, justice, and human rights. It should also address how equality and 
intersectionality are defined across the EU’s diverse socio -political landscapes to ensure 
inclusive policies that account for varying cultural and social contexts. It could also reflect on 
how to foster the implementation of EU strategies under the Union of Equality.31 
The network should support the implementation of gender -inclusive and intersectional 
strategies to counter disinformation, reduce societal polarisation, and re -engage citizens in 
democratic practices. These efforts could also aim at promoting critical thinking, media 
literacy, and active civic participation across diverse groups including youth and 
underrepresented groups. The network could also leverage foresight to anticipate emerging 
challenges to democracy and inform effective policy responses. Its work should be informed 
by close contact with elected representatives at local, regional, national and EU levels. 
As soon as possible in the network’s lifecycle, a dedicated online platform should be 
established to share evidence -based recommendations and innovative solutions to strengthen 
democratic practices based on Horizon Europe projects’ results and other relevant sources. 
This platform should be backed by a comprehensive repository that gathers information on 
existing tools, trainings, data, including disaggregated data, and methodologies for gender 
mainstreaming and addressing intersectional inequalities. It could also include a collaborative 
webpage for stakeholders to share information on events, calls for papers, and funding 
opportunities related to inclusive democracy, gender equality, and intersectionality. 
The network should ensure and support the translation of research findings (including from 
SSH disciplines) into actionable, evidence -based proposals, and to enable the development of 
practical and effective recommendations that drive positive change at different level of 
actions (local, national, supranational). Living labs and innovation hubs could be used to 
provide a collaborative environment for stakeholders to co-create and test solutions. 
To foster collaboration and drive progress, the network should host an annual thematic forum, 
providing a platform for stakeholders and policymakers to meet in person and share 
innovative ideas, receive feedback, and learn from one another. 
As a research and innovation area where freedom of science is enshrined and protected, the 
European Union offers an ideal environment to advance a career. Therefore, the network 
should also explore how to ensure a safe and enabling research environment, protecting 
 
researchers from backlash, hate speech and harassment, and promoting academic freedom and 
integrity when researching on democracy, inclusive societies, and intersectionality. 
The network’s actions should contribute to ensuring that the results and innovations generated 
by Horizon Europe projects related to inclusiveness in the public space, democracy, and 
governance are taken up and made available to relevant stakeholders. It could particularly 
build on past and on -going EU-funded projects, such as those under the topics HORIZON -
CL2-2021-DEMOCRACY-01-03, HORIZON -CL2-2022-TRANSFORMATIONS-01-05; 
HORIZON-CL2-2022-TRANSFORMATIONS-01-08 and HORIZON -CL2-2024-
DEMOCRACY-01-05. Proposals are encouraged to identify other relevant EU -funded 
projects, and to explore potential collaboration opportunities with them. 
The action to be funded should have a minimum duration of 4 years.