HORIZON-CL2-2027-01-DEMOCRACY-03: Student and family engagement for 
developing a culture of democratic/civic participation  
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society - 2027 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.50 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Legal and financial The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 54. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Policymakers, education and training institutions, and educators will be provided with an 
evidence base, toolkits, and recommendations on the types of collaboration mechanisms 
with families that are most effective in supporting schools' efforts to provide citizenship 
education55. 
• Policymakers, education and training institutions, and educators will have a deeper 
understanding of the effectiveness of student councils and other student participatory 
mechanisms on influencing school decision-making and on student civic engagement. 
• Policymakers, education and training institutions, and educators will have a deeper 
understanding of the impact of family involvement in citizenship education in schools.  
• Educators have frameworks, guidance, and tools for evaluating social -emotional 
learning, including values and attitudes, as part of citizenship education.   
Scope: Research should examine schools as a locus for practicing participation and 
developing innovative participatory practices. 
Research should examine student and family engagement to foster a democratic culture via 
school activities. It should consider schools as social places for intergenerational dialogue.  
Research should examine the role of socio -emotional learning in tackling sensitive topics in 
the classroom and in fostering civic agency development among learners. Research could 
explore the emotions that drive civic engagement and investigate strategies to help students 
emotionally cope with frustrations when their civic engagement efforts do not unfold as 
 
expected. Research should integrate an intersectional approach that is sensitive to gender and 
ability, by studying how students contribute to and respond to civic engagement efforts 
differently according to their identity and backgrounds. 
Research should examine the active role of families in building children and young people's 
civic identity. Parents/caregivers and the wider family are key in children and young people’s 
informal learning, shaping their interests, values, and world -views; family involvement in 
school citizenship education might vary in more diverse communities, depending on the 
family’s cultural, migrant or socio -economic backgrounds; some families may not appreciate 
the importance of teaching about social issues, democracy, or civic participation or may feel 
excluded or disconnected from schools’ efforts to provide citizenship education. Research 
should examine how citizenship education is reinforced or challenged outside the classroom, 
especially with growing polarization and diversity of our societies. The research should 
provide recommendations of how to effectively engage families from diverse backgrounds in 
their children's citizenship education. The main focus should be on parents and caregivers 
(legal guardians); exploring other wider family influences is also possible. 
Research should examine families’ and students' views on the content of citizenship education 
and examine the role of curriculum design in promoting inclusive civic engagement among 
students from diverse backgrounds. Arts and humanities can be part of the disciplines 
examined where relevant. Research should aim to identify the types of collaboration that not 
only bolster students' civic competence but also ensure inclusivity in their engagement.  
The research should investigate the effectiveness of student councils and other participatory 
mechanisms in providing meaningful opportunities for student influence. Research should 
investigate the incentives and motives behind participation and uncover possible restrictions 
and motives for non-participation. It should exploit the tools that have been already developed 
in previous research projects in the area of civic participation.  
Research should address the lack of formal monitoring and evaluation of these participatory 
mechanisms. It should develop frameworks, guidance, and tools for evaluation of socio -
emotional learning, including values and attitudes as part of citizenship education. 
Research can  explore whether and how engaging families in citizenship education and 
fostering of a democratic culture at school influences both the civic participation of children 
and young people, and that of their families. Emphasis could be placed on schools in 
marginalised areas or with high migrant populations, to uncover structural barriers to civic 
engagement in those settings. 
Research should include pilots or living labs, developing innovative participation practices in 
schools, where students learn to recognise and exercise their citizenship rights and 
obligations, strengthen the value of democracy, and build their identity as active citizens. 
Projects should collaborate with schools and education authorities in the development and 
running of these pilots and living labs.  
Projects may freely choose the age group they will examine, as long as it remains within 
primary and/or secondary education levels.