HORIZON-CL2-2027-01-HERITAGE-01: Towards a consolidated culture and 
creativity driven European innovation ecosystem 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society - 2027 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
4.50 and 5.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 5.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties. The support 
to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 122. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• The number and impact of CCI123-driven innovations in Europe are increased thanks to a 
wide uptake of evidence -based measures stemming from EU -funded research. These 
results are followed up with appropriate assessments and Key Performance Indicators. 
• Innovation driven by the cultural and creative industries continues to be boosted beyond 
project funding through a long-term economically sustainable ecosystem. 
• A vision of European CCIs as an essential engine of sustainable innovation and 
competitiveness is broadly established, making CCIs a natural part of European, 
national, regional and local innovation efforts.  
Scope: The transition towards a consolidated culture - and creativity -driven European 
innovation ecosystem represents a strategic imperative for Europe's future competitiveness 
and societal resilience. In an era where technological advancements alone no longer guarantee 
competitiveness, the CCIs emerge as essential drivers of transformative change and 
prosperity. It is necessary to unlock the innovative power of Europe’s cultural and creative 
industries both in themselves and as drivers of innovation in other economic sectors. CCIs 
shape new technologies and can contribute to user -driven innovation, open innovation, cross -
sectoral innovation 124 and to creative entrepreneurial ecosystems for regional development. 
CCIs are often the first to find productive uses for new technologies and establish meaningful 
connections between different technologies, thus paving the way for wider uptake that 
improves productivity and competitiveness in the wider economy. Europe’s CCIs can thus act 
as a crucial technology incubator, in addition to their wider societal contributions such as to 
cultural wealth, social cohesion and resilience. 
Significant research and innovation efforts have been made to boost CCIs and strengthen 
them as engines of innovation. Notably, Horizon Europe’s Cluster 2 has launched more than 
30 R&I projects with the collective objective to boost a culture and creativity driven European 
innovation ecosystem, establishing a collaborative platform for this purpose 125. Furthermore, 
 
the European Institute for Innovation and Technology has established a Knowledge and 
Innovation Community for the Cultural and Creative Sectors and Industries 126, and a Large -
Scale Partnership for the Cultural and Creative Industries Ecosystem has been set up under 
the EU Pact for Skills127 . 
The challenge is to build on, consolidate and complement, as appropriate, the key results such 
as technologies, solutions, methods, networks and platforms developed by these R&I projects 
and initiatives as well as by other relevant actions, with the objective to achieve long -term 
impact in terms of thriving CCIs that proactively engage in innovation and achieve significant 
economic growth. 
The project funded under this topic should build on and improve existing innovation 
ecosystems to make them effective for the CCIs. Difficulties to properly boost CCI -driven 
innovation need to be overcome, such as those linked to CCIs consisting mainly of small and 
micro enterprises with difficulties to fit into commonly applied innovation support models 
based on fast-growth startups, challenges in properly valuing the IPR of CCIs, inconsistencies 
between cultural and innovation policies, or issues linked to the particularities of CCI 
entrepreneurs. Solutions should go beyond common practice in innovation support and deploy 
for example portfolio approaches that make clusters of organisations investable entities. The 
project does not need to seek standardised approaches that work across the full diversity of the 
CCIs and of EU Member States and Associated Countries but should allow for taking local 
contexts into account. Nevertheless, the project should seek to establish common principles 
and active knowledge exchange across Europe. 
To properly follow up the results of its work, the project should develop suitable Key 
Performance Indicators and assessment frameworks, including with a base line for the initial 
situation. 
In order to achieve an enduring impact, the project should ensure long -term economically 
sustainable ecosystems. To be effective, it is important that the project, as appropriate, builds 
on previous work as well as complements and links to ongoing related initiatives. The long -
term sustainable ecosystems should therefore, as appropriate, build on existing networks 
and/or platforms, and should involve the key stakeholders, covering most EU Member States 
and Associated Countries as well as a wide range of CCIs. Proposals should include an 
outline of the sustainable and adaptable economic model envisaged, but do not need to 
describe it in full detail. 
In order to engage entities which are not part of the project consortium, such as important 
innovation support actors or CCIs, projects may award financial support to third parties. Such 
support can only be given in the form of grants. 
 
The Commission estimates that a project duration of at least 5 years is appropriate, in order to 
be able to achieve the expected long-term impacts.