HORIZON-CL2-2027-01-DEMOCRACY-01: Advisory support and network for 
countering and preventing radicalisation, extremism, hate speech and polarisation  
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society - 2027 
 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 3.50 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 3.50 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Due to the scope of this topic, legal entities established in non -
associated third countries may exceptionally participate in this 
Coordination and Support Action as a beneficiary or affiliated entity 
and are exceptionally eligible for Union funding. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 49. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Political, societal, educational stakeholders, and researchers have an improved 
understanding of theoretical models and provided pathways for implementing solutions 
to combat extremism, radicalisation, hate speech and polarisation. 
• Public authorities, law enforcement agencies, local authorities, NGOs, and community 
actors are more engaged in implementing and adapting solutions addressing 
radicalisation, extremism, hate speech, and polarisation in their respective contexts. 
• EU institutions, national policymakers and judicial bodies can draw on an enhanced 
evidence-base for their decision -making through scientific, political, and legal 
assessments of research results in real -life contexts, enabling replication of methods, 
legislative changes, and innovation. 
 
• Improved understanding of the root causes of hate and polarisation, of methodologies to 
combat online hate ecosystems and of the role of traditional media in shaping public 
opinion, including the correlation between media consumption and polarisation, to 
inform strategies for protecting victims and addressing hate crimes and speech.  
Scope: The European Union has been actively working to combat racism, xenophobia, hate 
speech, hate crimes, and extremism in recent years, developing and implementing various 
strategies to address these issues 50. Horizon 2020 and Horizon Europe have also played a 
crucial role in funding projects that aim to develop research and collect evidence on how to 
counter and prevent radicalisation, polarisation, hate speech and extremism. These 
phenomena pose significant risks, as they can undermine trust in democratic institutions, 
weaken the social contract, and contribute to rising inequalities and instability.  
European research (including research by SSH disciplines) should combine a clear 
understanding of the mechanisms that play a fundamental role in the circulation of online hate 
speech, radicalisation, extremism, and polarisation with the development of strategies to 
prevent and counter these phenomena. At the same time, it should promote the Union values 
enshrined in the Treaty on European Union, such as human dignity, freedom, democracy, 
equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, and the protection of democratic 
institutions, as a condition for everyone's talents to flourish and for fostering a cohesive 
society and a culture of tolerance and pluralism. This will contribute to enhance the 
prevention of violent extremism, hate speech and hate crime and the promotion of a more 
inclusive and resilient society.  
The spread of hate speech and extremist ideologies online has become a major concern, and 
the need for effective solutions to address these issues is pressing. Hate speech and extremism 
can be criminal offences, but also more broadly contribute to polarisation and have a chilling 
effect on freedom of expression, also limiting the engagement of individuals in public life 
(e.g. elected officials stepping down from elections because of hate attacks). Moreover, the 
polarisation of society and the erosion of trust in institutions pose a threat to social cohesion 
and democratic values. 
To address these challenges, it is essential also to foster the understanding on the root causes 
of radicalisation, extremism, hate and polarisation, including as concerns the impact of socio -
economic factors. This requires also collaboration with end -users, such as civil society 
organisations and practitioners 51 , who can provide valuable insights and help develop 
solutions that are tailored to their specific needs and contexts.  
Proposals are encouraged to identify other EU -funded projects related to preventing 
radicalisation, extremism, hate speech, and polarisation, financed by the Horizon programmes 
(Horizon 2020 and Horizon Europe) and complementary funding schemes (such as the 
Citizens, Equality, Rights and Values Programme, the Internal Security Fund, or others) and 
to explore potential opportunities for collaboration with them. Proposals should integrate a 
 
gender-sensitive and intersectional approach to illustrate how radicalisation, extremism, hate 
speech and polarisation disproportionately affect different groups and groups of different 
ages. 
Initiatives of research such as the ones in the EU Knowledge Hub on Prevention of 
Radicalisation52 (previously Radicalisation Awareness Network) or the forthcoming online 
knowledge hub under the Code of conduct on countering illegal hate speech online should be 
considered when developing initiatives to upscale and exploit solutions to combat extremism, 
hate speech and radicalisation. Research activities should meaningfully involve a wide range 
of stakeholders and societal actors, particularly civil society organisations, including non -
academic and non -scientific actors. Projects should link appropriately with the envisaged 
European Centre for Democratic Resilience and seek to make best use of its stakeholder 
platform.