HORIZON-CL2-2027-01-TRANSFO-02: Impact of in -kind benefits on income 
distribution and on vulnerable populations 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society - 2027 
 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 3.30 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 10.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 196. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Policy makers get a mapping of in -kind benefits across Member States and a 
comprehensive measurement framework. 
• Policy makers gain insights on the availability of in -kind services, on potential gaps in 
their provision, and on reasons for non-take up. 
• Policy makers gain insights into the redistributive role of in -kind benefits and on the 
segregation of different social groups, through SSH research. 
• Policy makers receive operational advice to make informed policy choices which reduce 
inequality and strengthen fairness and cohesion.  
Scope: In-kind benefits refer to non -cash goods and services provided to individuals or 
households, typically by the government (national, regional and/or local), to support their 
well-being or fulfil basic needs. Unlike cash transfers, which can be spent at the recipient's 
discretion, in-kind benefits ensure that resources are used for specific purposes for free or at a 
subsidised cost (e.g. food banks, social housing, health and long -term care services, childcare, 
 
schooling, sport infrastructure, public transport). Despite the wide range of in -kind benefits, 
there is poor empirical knowledge basis of the impact of in -kind benefits (except for 
healthcare) on the income distribution and on vulnerable groups, unlike the impact of cash 
benefits. 
Research activities may focus, as a baseline, on establishing a full mapping of in-kind benefits 
(both for free and at a subsidised cost, universal and means -tested) provided by national, 
regional and local governments. This mapping, potentially structured along the life -cycle 
perspective and/or around specific groups, might help to develop EU indicators on in -kind 
benefits and improve comparability. 
Proposals may develop a comprehensive measurement framework based on methods, tools, 
available data and indicators, both qualitative and quantitative and both ex ante and ex post. 
The framework may translate in -kind benefits into income and show their redistributive role 
(on income groups, vulnerable populations, marginal and/or small size groups) and ensure 
cross-country comparability. 
Proposals may consider identifying the availability of in -kind benefits at local level, potential 
gaps, take-up rates for in -kind benefits and their reasons (e.g. capacities' incompatibility with 
the local needs). They may involve vulnerable communities in the evaluation design. 
Proposals may provide operational advice to policy makers on how to translate the research 
results into concrete actions to reduce inequality and strengthen fairness and cohesion. 
The overall aim is to close the knowledge gap covering various dimensions. Therefore, it is 
expected that proposals apply a gender-sensitive and intersectional approach, including age, to 
their research.