HORIZON-CL2-2027-01-HERITAGE-03: Crafting routes to a circular economy 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society - 2027 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 3.50 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 10.50 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 129. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• The cultural dimension of circular economy is better understood. Cultural factors and the 
potential of cultural and creative sectors and industries (CCSI) are leveraged to foster 
circular economy in the EU 
• Scalable, sustainable and inclusive business models are developed with users and 
stakeholders, leveraging circular practices from CCSI for economic and environmental 
benefits (e.g. nature protection, reducing waste, increasing resource efficiency, 
promoting sustainable consumption and re-use patterns). 
• Circular solution toolkit: A practical toolkit enables businesses in various sectors to 
apply CCSI -inspired frugal innovation principles, promoting circularity, sustainability 
and inclusion. 
• Evidence-based recommendations and guidelines are available to policymakers to 
support the transition towards circular practices in CCSI and across other industries and 
to integrate frugal innovation 130 in circular economy strategies. They emphasize local 
adaptations of global strategies, allowing for customized approaches that respect and 
enhance local cultures, heritage and economies. 
• Skills Enhancement: Training modules on frugal innovation, circular design, and circular 
economy practices inspired by crafts, local heritage and other CCSI are available to 
professionals in various industries.  
 
Scope: The transition from a linear to a circular economy131 is crucial for Europe’s prosperity, 
long term competitiveness and strategic autonomy. This shift can reduce dependence on raw 
materials, decrease greenhouse gas emissions, pollution, and waste, limit biodiversity loss, 
create jobs, and support environmental sustainability.  The New European Innovation 
Agenda132 recognises circularity as a key challenge to accelerate innovation across the EU. 
Securing essential resources is a high priority, but the transition to circularity requires more 
than new materials and products: it demands a paradigm shift and a systemic approach that 
combines different sectors, technological progress, actors, and disciplines with deeper 
industrial, economic, and societal changes. In advancing a circular economy and society, 
cultural dimensions are paramount; and cultural barriers can be as significant as economic or 
technical ones and should be addressed. 
CCSIs can act as catalysts for change. Through storytelling and community engagement, they 
can reshape cognitive frameworks, influence consumer attitudes, and promote societal shifts 
towards circular principles. They can encourage other industries, such as manufacturing 
(including textile and fashion), tourism, or construction (including housing and urban 
development) to adopt circular approaches, promoting resource efficiency and designing for 
longevity and adaptability. Despite their potential, cultural aspects remain underexplored in 
circular economy strategies. This topic aims to investigate effective strategies and synergies 
between culture, creativity, and the circular economy, to inform policy, enhance education 
and lifelong learning, and inspire innovation. The goal is to develop robust frameworks 
supporting economic, environmental, and social sustainability across Europe, fostering an 
environment where culture, creativity, and economy combine to form resilient circular 
systems and societies. Where relevant, synergies with the New European Bauhaus may also 
be considered. 
Proposals may address one or more of the following four focuses and may combine them with 
others as appropriate to their objectives. 
Focus 1. Crafts-led innovation for circular economy 
Crafts naturally align with circular economy principles through their use of natural, renewable 
materials, small scale tools and production, and the creation of durable products with cultural 
significance. Integrating circular economy concepts with craftsmanship helps address 
sustainability challenges, preserve cultural heritage and foster local economic development.  
Craft practices exemplify frugal innovation by efficiently using local resources and 
minimising waste, offering valuable insights for other sectors seeking to improve 
sustainability and resource efficiency. Key aspects of the relationship between crafts and the 
circular economy include traditional knowledge systems rooted in generations of sustainable, 
 
place-based practices; local resource utilisation promoting efficiency; and upcycling and 
waste reduction through creative reuse of materials. 
Furthermore, craftmanship is key part of the value chain in high -end industries such as 
fashion and textiles, with potential synergies to enhance sustainability and the use of recycled, 
reused and renewable materials and to foster circular and just fashion and textiles value -
chains, supporting innovative approaches. 
By leveraging circular economy and frugal innovation principles, craft practices offer 
affordable, accessible, inclusive and equitable solutions to sustainability challenges, 
emphasizing local resources and community-based production. 
Collaborative, open innovation approaches can unlock creative solutions that promote a more 
sustainable, inclusive, and resource-efficient future. 
Proposals should develop a framework integrating circular economy and frugal innovation 
principles derived from craft practices, applicable and adaptable across various industries and 
sectors. This includes models for cross -sector collaboration and knowledge transfer among 
craft practitioners, designers, researchers, and industry professionals to drive circular 
innovation, foster capacity building, and ensure equitable access to sustainable solutions. 
Proposals may consider UNESCO Creative Cities, in particular the City of Crafts and Folk 
Arts. 
Focus 2 Evaluating adaptive reuse of built cultural heritage 
Cultural heritage buildings are vital for their historical and cultural significance, embodying 
the identity of local communities. At the same time, the built environment is a major driver of 
material demand, with significant economic, environmental and wellbeing impacts. 133 The 
Built4People SRIA134 highlights the need for R&I in retrofitting and repair, including heritage 
buildings, using vernacular, bio -based, locally sourced materials, or innovative materials 
compatible with vernacular ones. The EU Circular Cities and Regions Initiative identifies 
adaptive reuse of cultural heritage as key to urban sustainability and resilience. 135  There is a 
need for systematic urban planning transforming building lifecycles from linear to circular 
models, leveraging cultural heritage to improve energy efficiency, reduce waste, and generate 
cultural, economic, social and environmental benefits. Participatory planning is crucial for 
achieving circularity, as are indicators for measuring impact. Adaptive reuse also delivers 
economic value as heritage sites attract visitors, support local businesses, and foster vibrant 
cultural economies, making cultural participation central to sustainable urban regeneration 
and the circular economy. Integrating service design approaches can further connect adaptive 
 
reuse of heritage buildings with stakeholders and enhance cultural services and community 
activities. 
Proposals should develop methodologies to evaluate the economic, social and environmental 
benefits of maintaining and reusing built heritage. They should establish criteria and 
indicators for assessing cultural heritage’s contribution to circular city objectives, including 
energy and resource efficiency, waste reduction, social cohesion and economic sustainability, 
and explore evaluation tools for innovative circular financing, business and governance 
models for adaptive reuse of cultural heritage. 
Focus 3. Food heritage and gastronomic innovation for circular futures 
Food is deeply connected to cultural and creative sectors through gastronomic heritage, food -
related crafts, and intangible traditions that shape cultural identities. Addressing food’s 
cultural dimensions offers unique opportunities to advance circular economy principles. Food 
heritage promotes local sourcing, biodiversity, and waste reduction, while culinary tourism 
and creative food initiatives drive sustainable growth and cross -sectoral innovation. Proposals 
should develop a framework to integrate circular economy principles into gastronomy and 
food heritage and devise transferable methodologies linking food -related creativity with 
sustainable practices. Proposals might consider UNESCO Creative Cities, in particular the 
City of Gastronomy. 
Focus 4. Designing circularity: creative pathways and open innovation 
Design is pivotal in the transition to a circular economy, underpinning three principles: 
eliminating waste and pollution, circulating products and materials, and regenerating nature. 
By applying these principles, designers create durable, repairable, and recyclable products and 
services, aligned with circular economy goals. The fashion industry pioneered upcycling and 
make-to-order models, producing items only on demand to reduce overproduction and waste. 
Such models, alongside product -as-a-service, sharing economy initiatives, or closed -loop 
production systems, offer adaptable strategies for other sectors to enhance circularity. The 
dynamic creative sector catalyses innovation, serving as a platform to experiment with 
circular design approaches across creative and non-creative sectors, including open innovation 
practices. 
Proposals should develop a comprehensive framework for integrating circular economy 
principles into design processes across cultural and creative industries, guiding designers to 
minimise waste and maximise resource efficiency. A collaborative environment should 
facilitate sharing circular design practices and transferring innovative solutions across 
industries. 
