HORIZON-CL2-2027-01-HERITAGE-08: Safeguarding & transmission of intangible 
cultural heritage 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society - 2027 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties. The support 
to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 154. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Enhanced understanding of the state of play of the safeguarding of Intangible Cultural 
Heritage (ICH), in the Context set by the 2003 UNESCO Convention, and an overview 
of successful methods for documenting and ensuring the transmission of ICH, including 
digital, audio-visual, and advanced technologies. 
• Recognition of the significance and value of ICH in different social, cultural and 
economic contexts, and with attention to biodiversity preservation and links between 
ICH and the natural environment. 
 
• Empowered communities take ownership and responsibility for safeguarding their ICH, 
with a focus on how inter -generational transmission is ensured, and on youth 
involvement and informal education. 
• Innovative policy solutions are available, for the safeguarding of ICH and for mobilising 
ICH as a resource for fostering social and economic innovation, biodiversity protection 
and restoration.  
Scope: Intangible cultural heritage (ICH) refers to ‘the practices, representations, expressions, 
knowledge, skills—as well as the instruments, objects, artefacts and cultural spaces’ that are 
‘transmitted from generation to generation’ and are ‘constantly recreated’ – as defined by the 
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) Convention for 
the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage (ICH Convention) 155. ICH is an essential 
part of a community's identity and is a vital component of its cultural and biological diversity. 
The ICH Convention was adopted in 2003, by 148 countries and it recognizes the importance 
of ICH as a driving force for social cohesion, cultural diversity, and sustainable development. 
However, the nature of ICH, as living heritage, to continually transform and evolve, makes it 
particularly challenging to keep alive. Therefore, safeguarding ICH encounters very different 
challenges than the built heritage sector. ICH is rooted in territories and communities and is 
essential for identity building and maintaining social cohesion and a harmonious relation to 
the natural environment. It is a source for creativity and innovation, and a critical factor for 
new competitive scenarios. 
Transmission, education and intergenerational dialogue play a key role in this context, and 
there is an urgent need to research and foster participatory approaches, especially involving 
oral cultures and transmission. Different case -studies should explore various approaches to 
the safeguarding of ICH, considering the specific nature of competences, knowledge and 
cultural practices of creators and knowledge holders, with a focus on intergenerational 
transmission. 
Proposals should contribute to defining the specificities of intangible cultural heritage. 
Additionally, they could examine and quantify the contribution of ICH to creativity, 
innovation, cultural and biological diversity, and economic benefits. Proposals should also 
contribute to the rethinking of cultural policies for the safeguarding of ICH including 
exploring links and correlations between cultural and biological diversity. 
Proposed research projects could address in depth the following research questions:   
1. What is the state of play of the safeguarding of ICH in Europe, following the UNESCO 
2003 Convention? 
2. What are the main threats and challenges to the erosion and loss of ICH in Europe? 
3. What are the most effective strategies for securing ICH safeguarding initiatives? 
 
4. How can advanced digital technologies be leveraged for the safeguarding & transmission 
of ICH? 
5. How can ICH provide inspiration for innovative approaches to existing societal 
challenges (e.g. competitiveness, intergenerational dialogue democratic values, 
biodiversity protection and restoration 156) 
6. What role can community -led initiatives play in safeguarding ICH, and how can 
communities be supported and empowered to safeguard it?  
The role of advanced digital technologies to support ICH safeguarding and transmission 
should be considered, as appropriately. 
The proposals should comprise transdisciplinary scientific collaborations involving, for 
instance and not exhaustive, heritage and museum studies, cultural anthropology, ethnology, 
media studies, theatre studies, literary studies, musicology etc. Available results of existing 
research on intangible cultural heritage should be taken into consideration, while 
identification of needs for further research in the field should be promoted. 
Proposals should build on existing knowledge, activities, networks and platforms, notably the 
ones funded by the EU, for example paying attention to the future digital tools and platforms 
provided by the European Collaborative Cloud for Cultural Heritage (ECCCH), and the 
Common European Data Space for Cultural Heritage. 
Furthermore, links should be established and complementarities sought with closely related 
actions, such as relevant R&I actions funded by Horizon Europe or Horizon 2020. In 
particular, proposals should establish links to, and where appropriate build on findings from, 
projects funded under the topics HORIZON -CL2-2025-HERITAGE-02: Innovative 
approaches to intangible cultural heritage for societal resilience.