HORIZON-CL2-2026-01-DEMOCRACY-02: Understanding the forms of local 
democracy in low-income and low-middle income countries  
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.50 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 21. 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• EU institutions and national decision -makers are equipped with science -based tools, 
toolkits, training models, monitoring frameworks, and recommendations to proactively 
promote inequality reduction, human rights and democracy, in order to lead to more 
resilient and inclusive democratic societies in low -income and low -middle income 
countries22 
• EU institutions and national decision -makers are better able to proactively promote 
democratic values, principles and practices in low - and low -middle income countries 
grounded in a better understanding of the actors at local level including their capacity 
and needs when engaging in democratic practices. 
• EU institutions, national decision-makers, and civil society organisations can access and 
use (evidence-based) good practices for working in fragile contexts23 
 
• EU institutions and national decision -makers understand the role of decentralization 
processes in low-income and low-middle income countries, and its impact on the quality 
of public services and on acceptance of democratic processes among citizens.   
In addition, projects should contribute to at least one of the following expected outcomes: 
• Policymakers, public authorities, and service delivery providers have a better 
understanding of the link between efficient delivery of public services and pro -
democratic sentiment in low-income and low-middle income countries. 
• Civil society organisations, and other relevant actors, working in the fields of 
development cooperation and promotion of human rights have better tools to promote 
democratic practices at local level in low-income and low-middle income countries.   
Scope: Democratic backsliding and human rights rollbacks are increasing globally, especially 
in low- and middle-income countries, driven by internal instability and external interference 
promoting non -democratic models. These trends also represent a risk to the security of 
European citizens and businesses, and a destabilisation factor in the countries and regions 
with which the EU maintains diplomatic and economic relations. To tackle this, the EU has 
developed and started to implement several strategies to promote and defend democracy and 
human rights in third countries24. 
Developing countries with strong local democratic practices, such as elections and 
representative democracy at levels below the national government, tend to be more resilient 
against democratic backsliding. Proposals should therefore gather evidence on how actors in 
economic, political, and social ecosystems at the local level could foster democratic practices, 
increase citizens' trust in governance and democratic institutions, improve transparency of 
decision making, and promote respect for human rights. Proposals are also encouraged to 
gather evidence on different forms of democratic participation and governance at local level, 
paying particular attention to the inclusion of women and marginalised and underrepresented 
groups. 
In countries where central governments face significant territorial challenges and lack 
effective control over certain areas, the EU and Member States are left to cooperate with 
administrations at sub -national levels. In these cases, the objectives of the research projects 
may be achieved through the consultation and engagement of local administrations and civil 
society partners. Proposals are encouraged to investigate how EU and national public 
authorities can operate in these fragile contexts, where central governments do not have sound 
control of areas of the country. 
 
In addition, proposals are encouraged to investigate the link between efficient public service 
delivery and pro -democratic sentiment, experiences, and outcomes (measured, for example, 
by civic participation or trust in institutions), deliver a critical analysis of the evidence 
collected and identify good practices, conditions and methods for their transferability to other 
contexts. 
Research activities should meaningfully involve a wide range of stakeholders and societal 
actors at local level (public authorities, economic and institutional actors, trade unions, 
traditional and faith leaders, indigenous people, women’s and LGBTIQ groups, and others), 
including non -scientific and non -academic actors. Proposals are encouraged to involve 
entities in low- and middle-income countries, to rely on their first -hand competences to steer 
the methodological approach and perform the data collection and analysis. Proposals are also 
encouraged to make use of participatory research approaches to enhance inclusivity and 
stakeholder engagement and experimental methods. They should adopt a multidisciplinary 
approach, integrating SSH fields such as political science, public administration, economics, 
cultural studies, sociology, gender studies, geography. 
Proposals are encouraged to identify other relevant EU -funded projects, and to explore 
potential collaboration opportunities with them. 
Given the geographical scope of this research, international cooperation is strongly 
encouraged. Proposals are encouraged to foster collaboration with entities in alignment with 
the New EU Agenda for EU-Latin America and the Caribbean, New EU Agenda for EU-Latin 
America and the Caribbean, EU–Central Asia Strategy, and AU–EU Innovation Agenda. 
Where applicable, proposals should leverage the data and services available through European 
Research Infrastructures federated under the European Open Science Cloud (EOSC), as well 
as data from relevant Data Spaces. Particular efforts should be made to ensure that the data 
produced in the context of this topic is FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Re -
usable).