HORIZON-CL2-2027-01-DEMOCRACY-05: Development aid and democratic 
governance 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society - 2027 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.50 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 60. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• EU and national policymakers and development aid agencies are better equipped to deal 
with the complexities and challenges of the relations between the EU and low - and 
middle-income countries and increase their intelligence to develop EU strategies and 
policies that promote a more inclusive and equitable multilateralism. 
• Organisations for development cooperation have enhanced capacity and solutions to 
support democratic institutions and address key global challenges, such as climate 
action, democracy and rule of law, human rights and gender equality. 
• Strengthened multilateral partnerships between the EU as a donor of development aid 
and low- and middle-income countries in the field of development cooperation.   
Scope: The European Union's development aid efforts face significant challenges in 
promoting democracy and stability in third countries, despite substantial investments in 
development assistance. Many countries continue to face challenges related to democratic 
governance, and the relationship between aid and its impact on inequality reduction, poverty 
alleviation, sustainable peace and security, as well as the strengthening of democratic 
institutions and processes, remains unclear. The resurgence of authoritarianism and the 
erosion of democratic values globally pose considerable challenges to EU foreign policy, 
underscoring the need for more effective diplomatic, security and development cooperation 
frameworks and strategies. 
There is a pressing need for research (including by SSH disciplines) to elucidate the complex 
relationships between development aid, democratic governance, equality, security, and global 
challenges. This includes examining the effects of development aid on democratic institutions 
 
and processes, identifying gaps in funding for democratic governance, and exploring 
innovative approaches to supporting democratic governance and reducing inequality. In this 
context, the role of other non -EU aid donors, including public, private, and philanthropic 
actors, must be understood. This includes examining the influence of the EU's economic and 
geopolitical competitors, to see why their support may be more attractive to developing 
countries, and how they are filling vacuums left by cuts from traditional donors, creating new 
socio-economic dependencies and power relations. 
The scope of this research topic is broad, encompassing the interplay between development 
aid, security, and democratic governance, with a focus on reducing socio -economic and 
gender inequalities, fostering democratic resilience, and promoting inclusive governance. By 
investigating these dynamics, researchers can uncover new insights and strategies to align 
development assistance with democratic strengthening, ultimately contributing to more 
effective and sustainable development outcomes. 
Key areas of investigation include the impact of development aid on democratic institutions, 
the reduction of socio -economic and gender inequalities, and the identification of funding 
gaps for democratic governance initiatives, as well as the consequences of declining 
democratic trends on the effectiveness of global development strategies and the achievement 
of sustainable development goals. 
Proposals should also seek to identify new opportunities to enhance the EU´s soft power and 
geopolitical influence across the Humanitarian -Development-Peace nexus, including through 
the development of dedicated diplomacies (e.g., climate diplomacy, water diplomacy, science 
diplomacy, etc.). The actions should strive to include development aid civil society 
organisations in the activities. 
Proposals should use a gender-sensitive and intersectional approach in their research.  
Proposals are encouraged to identify other relevant EU -funded projects related to EU 
democracy support, civil society engagement, and international cooperation on sustainable 
peace and democratic governance, and to explore potential collaboration opportunities with 
them. 
Proposals may also incorporate participatory research approaches to enhance inclusivity and 
stakeholder engagement. 
The geographical scope of this research includes the EU Enlargement, Neighbourhood 61 and 
low- and lower middle -income countries62, with a focus on the relationship of these with the 
EU. Therefore, international cooperation is strongly encouraged. 
 
