HORIZON-CL2-2027-01-HERITAGE-04: Culture, heritage and creative industries for 
health and well-being 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society - 2027 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 16.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or 
as an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties. The support 
to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 136. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
 
• Deepened knowledge of the potential positive effects of cultural experiences on health 
and well-being137 is developed and made available to relevant stakeholders, along with 
validated scalable and replicable practices to reinforce these effects 
• Key industrial, health, cultural, educational and/or civil society actors are aware of 
validated systemic approaches to make cultural experiences improve health and well -
being and are engaged in producing or supporting such cultural experiences 
• Competitive European cultural and creative sectors and industries systematically 
contribute to improve health and well-being  
Scope: It is widely recognised that cultural experiences, such as those offered by cultural 
heritage institutions (CHIs) or cultural and creative sectors and industries (CCSI), can be 
beneficial for health and well -being. Research done, though scattered and not always 
systematic, supports this conclusion, with for instance the World Health Organisation arguing 
that cultural experiences contribute to health in four areas: prevention of ill -health, promotion 
of healthy behaviour, as well as management and treatment of disease138. 
However, there is still a lack of systematic research into the key characteristics and 
circumstances of cultural experiences to best support health and well -being. The challenge is 
to remedy this situation by developing evidence -based and validated practices that can be 
understood and used by CHIs and CCSI as well as other key stakeholders to develop cultural 
experiences that effectively support health and well-being. 
There are many possible ways to approach this challenge. Proposals are free to choose the 
focus considered to have the best potential to achieve a strong impact and should make sure to 
delimit the focus in a way that allows for sufficiently thorough work. Activities may thus 
concentrate on different kinds of arts and culture – interventions and/or experiences – online 
and/or in person – and/or on cross -sectoral issues. Proposals should, however, credibly 
explain why the chosen focus and approach are likely to achieve a strong impact. 
One possible focus could be on arts and culture -based experiences as a societal support kit, in 
situations of crises or other circumstances where health or well -being is under threat. 
Decision-makers could thus benefit from a set of validated practices that help support well -
being among the population in such situations. Such research might be based on good 
examples provided by Member States/Associated Countries or other stakeholders, with a view 
to consolidate and build on existing knowledge and practices. 
Another possible focus could be on mobilising a particular cultural and creative industry to 
contribute to health and well -being, such as for instance the video games industry. Ever more 
people spend ever more time on games, making this an important and growing source of 
cultural experiences, with a strong interactive component. Besides being a source of 
 
entertainment, video game communities give opportunities for isolated, underprivileged or 
discriminated people to find a sense of belonging, and to contribute to societal goals. At the 
same time, however, a context of competitivity and anonymity may invite harassment and 
discrimination in online multi-player video games. 
A third possible focus could be an implementation research approach, exploring the obstacles 
to adoption of already validated arts and culture –based intervention(s) that support health and 
well-being, and developing effective way(s) to achieve broad uptake. 
In order to achieve evidence-based and validated practices that can be understood and used by 
CHIs and/or CCSI as well as by other targeted key actors and stakeholders, projects should 
involve stakeholders from such sectors. To validate practices, projects may launch small scale 
pilot trials but may also choose other validation methods appropriate to the focus chosen. As 
appropriate for the focus chosen, projects should properly take the gender dimension into 
account, such as for instance gender differences in cultural participation and its consequences. 
Projects may award financial support to third parties in order to involve entities such as CCSI, 
CHIs or other important stakeholders which are not part of the project consortium. Such 
support can only be given in the form of grants. 
To the extent appropriate, projects should build on previous research and innovation and 
established methods. In particular, as appropriate, projects may establish links to the project 
funded under call topic ‘HORIZON-CL2-2025-01-HERITAGE-09 Impacts of Culture and the 
Arts on Health and Well-being’.  
Proposals may consider, as appropriate considering the focus chosen, the involvement of the 
European Commission's Joint Research Centre (JRC), based on its experience for example 
with the SciArt and artist -in-residency programmes, and the value it could bring in providing 
an effective interface between research activities and policymaking.