HORIZON-CL2-2026-01-TRANSFO-05: Contribution of basic skills to productivity, 
innovation, competitiveness and economic growth 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 173. 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Provide policymakers with a more detailed understanding of the contribution of basic 
skills on the economy in the short and medium term, with a focus on their contribution to 
productivity and innovation, to sustain EU competitiveness and growth. 
• Develop actionable advice about how, in a lifelong perspective, education and training 
systems can help foster basic skills. 
 
• Promote productivity, innovation, competitiveness and growth, including by reducing 
gender, disability and socioeconomic gaps in basic skills.  
Scope: In the context of the Union of Skills, the 2025 European Commission’s Action Plan on 
Basic Skills identifies five basic skills: literacy, mathematics (including also financial 
literacy), science, digital and citizenship. Strong basic skill levels among young people and 
adults are key to sustaining EU productivity, innovation, competitiveness and growth, as also 
explained in the 2024 Draghi Report174. Other key EU initiatives support lifelong learning as a 
driver for productivity, innovation, and economic growth, for instance the 2022 Council 
Recommendation encouraging the implementation of Individual Learning Accounts (ILAs) in 
Member States. 
Evidence of causal relationship between basic skills on the one hand and productivity, 
innovation, competitiveness and economic growth, on the other is still limited in Europe, both 
at microeconomic and macroeconomic levels, mostly due to scarce use of longitudinal data. 
This also applies to the interplay between the basic skills and other skills (such as socio -
emotional skills) in promoting productivity, innovation, competitiveness and growth. 
There is also a need for better evidence (including from SSH disciplines) on which education 
and training policies and practices at all levels (school education, vocational education and 
training, higher education, adult education) can be effective in reducing gender, disability and 
socioeconomic disparities in basic skill acquisition and in subsequent labour market 
outcomes. The research should also better explore the competences that learners need to learn 
effectively with AI -based tools. Additional evidence is required on how to increase female 
participation in STEM and how to address teacher shortages, as well as on how to address 
barriers faced by persons with disabilities. 
Proposals should address those research gaps by applying rigorous quantitative methods with 
a longitudinal perspective for their analysis and could complement them with qualitative 
research methods. Proposals should also evaluate the inclusion aspect, and the costs 
associated with the policies or practices analysed. Cooperation with education and training 
stakeholders is encouraged. Clustering and cooperation with other selected projects under the 
call HORIZON -CL2-2024-TRANSFORMATIONS-01-10: “Effective education and labour 
market transitions of young people” and other relevant projects, as well as the Social 
Transformations and Resilience Partnership are strongly encouraged.