HORIZON-CL2-2026-01-HERITAGE-07: Preventing and fighting illicit trafficking of 
cultural goods 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
4.50 and 5.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 5.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Due to the scope of this topic, legal entities established in non -
associated third countries may exceptionally participate in this 
Coordination and Support Action as a beneficiary or affiliated entity and 
are exceptionally eligible for Union funding. 
This topic requires the involvement, as beneficiaries, of: 
• at least three security practitioner 106  organisations or agencies 
established in at least three different EU Member States or 
Associated Countries, and 
• at least two scientific research institutions working on illicit 
trafficking in the specific field of Cultural Heritage. 
For participants with practitioner status, applicants must fill in the table 
“Information about security practitioners” in the application form with 
all the requested information, following the template provided in the 
submission IT tool. 
Some activities, resulting from this topic, may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 107. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties up to 15% of 
the EU funding. The support to third parties can only be provided in the 
form of grants. The maximum amount to be granted to each third party 
is EUR 60 000. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Increased evidence collection and intelligence gathering, effective cross -border and 
cross-domain cooperation and uptake by the Law Enforcement Authorities (LEA) and 
experts of the consolidated tools and platforms within their operational systems and 
methodologies in accordance with the different user’s requirements. 
• Capacity building and consolidated training ecosystem, developed with concrete, 
validated, actionable, interactive training materials tailored to the specific needs of 
different user groups across EU Member States and beyond.  
• European Union law enforcement, judiciary and other competent authorities and 
practitioners gain a better understanding and enhanced capabilities in addressing crimes 
related to cultural heritage thanks to the consolidations of existing solutions, 
standardized and tailored trainings and workshops and practical learning materials. 
• Actionable solutions to the threat to cultural heritage trafficking by illicit excavations 
crime that do not necessarily amount to organised crime but are still illegal activities that 
considerably endanger Europe’s cultural heritage, as well as cultural heritage in third 
countries. 
• A robust and long -term sustainable support framework and plan which will ensure and 
make operational a long-term cooperation in the prevention and fight of illicit trafficking 
of cultural goods.   
 
Scope: Trafficking in cultural goods is a serious crime that poses significant threats to cultural 
heritage, particularly in conflict and crisis areas. This illicit trade involves the illegal import, 
export, and transfer of ownership of valuable cultural items, including theft from institutions 
and private collections, looting of archaeological sites, assets laundering and forgery of 
cultural goods. At the EU level, combatting cultural goods’ trafficking is supported by the EU 
Security Union Strategy 2020 -2025108, the EU Strategy to Tackle Organised Crime 2021 -
2025109, the EU action plan against trafficking in cultural goods 110 and the related Council 
Conclusions 111 , 112 , 113 , the EU Serious and Organised Crime Threat Assessment (EU -
SOCTA)114. Cultural goods’ trafficking is a highly specialised criminal market. The criminals 
range from specialised criminal networks to corrupt dealers or expert dark web traders. 
Criminal networks and actors active in the area of cultural goods trafficking are characterised 
by a high degree of expertise and specialised knowledge 115. To overtake the challenges there 
is the necessity to use advanced analytics, including machine learning and AI technologies, in 
order to curate, process and share large volumes of dynamic interoperable and high-quality 
data and transforming it into meaningful intelligence. By facilitating data exchange across 
borders and between stakeholders, it would ensure real -time access to relevant information, 
enhancing collaboration and coordination. 
Proposals should strongly build on existing expertise and developments, focusing on (1) 
developing a cohesive ecosystem to be promoted among LEAs, with integrations and 
operational interfaces between existing tools, systems (including LEA systems) and the 
solutions developed to trace, protect, safeguard and repatriate goods, including methodologies 
for combating crimes through data and network analysis; (2) fostering the utilisation of the 
aforementioned systems by LEA and push them forward to market readiness level to ensure 
their effective impact on combating illicit trafficking cases; (3) strengthening the 
collaboration between the different stakeholders providing effective tools and actionable and 
standardized training materials for boosting capacity in cataloguing and provenance 
information analysis; (4) improving data quality, robust data governance and data 
interoperability across stakeholders and cross borders, improving LEA access to critical 
databases; (5) provide support to evidence collection thanks to the analysis and interpolation 
of different sources of information and open source and geospatial intelligence. 
Proposals should design and consolidate the solution space, tools and the training ecosystem 
to demonstrate real uptake and adoption and ensure they reflect the priorities of diverse 
personas, including law enforcement authorities, customs officials, police authorities, cultural 
heritage professionals, policymakers and citizens. The training ecosystem should build on the 
 
results and findings of relevant national and EU -funded projects, such as for example OPFA -
CULT116 , in order to leverage existing knowledge and avoid duplication of effort. The 
development of these materials should be integrated with existing EU and international legal 
frameworks and measures on the trafficking of cultural goods, including those applicable 
beyond EU borders 117 118 119. For police authorities’ training -related aspects, cooperation of 
successful proposals with CEPOL is expected, provided that the Agency opts out from 
applying for funding. 
The proposals should build on the achievements and findings of related previous national and 
EU-funded projects as well as create complementarities or synergies with projects and 
European research infrastructures in the field, such as, for example the ones funded under 
Horizon Europe Cluster 2 and Cluster 3, ERC, the Internal Security Fund (ISF), Creative 
Europe, the Union Civil Protection Mechanism (UCPM), the European research infrastructure 
for heritage science (E -RIHS). Where possible and relevant, synergy -building and clustering 
initiatives with successful proposals in the same area should be considered, including the 
organisation of international conferences in close coordination with the Community for 
European Research and Innovation for Security (CERIS) 18activities and/or other 
international events. 
Proposals are encouraged to seek synergies, and collaboration, with relevant initiatives 
already developed from international stakeholders working in the field of cultural heritage as 
well as in the security sector. The creation of new tools and the duplication of existing ones 
should be avoided; instead, priority should be given to leveraging opportunities for 
consolidation and maximizing impact. of existing tools and resources. 
Scientists and practitioners doing research in the field of Cultural Heritage (such as 
archaeologists, museologists, art historians or related fields) must have an essential role in the 
production of the outputs assuring that they efficiently take into account the real needs and 
problems of the field, as well as in ensuring scientific quality of information and data. 
Proposals are encouraged to actively collaborate, create synergies and developments with the 
European Collaborative Cloud for Cultural Heritage (ECCCH) 120 and the Europol Innovation 
Lab during the lifetime of the project, including validating the outcomes, with the aim of 
facilitating future uptake of innovations for the law enforcement community. Proposals 
should ensure alignment on the formats and standards used to exchange interoperable high -
quality data with the Cultural Heritage Cloud. 
Beneficiaries may plan their activities opting to provide Financial Support to Third Parties in 
order to support practitioners (such as Police Authorities, Non -Governmental 
Organisations/Civil Society Organisations, cultural and creative industries [CCIs], research 
 
groups and communities of practitioners in the field of Cultural Heritage) for expanding the 
proposed work in terms of, for instance, additional user groups and needs, complementary 
assessments, technology- or methodology-testing activities.  
Proposals funded under this topic are expected to actively develop, configure and implement a 
long-term sustainable governance and cooperation framework which will ensure long term 
engagement beyond the duration of the funding. Particular emphasis should be placed on the 
co-creation of a detailed, realistic, and jointly agreed roadmap and validated business model 
to ensure functionality after the project ends. The model needs to be already validated and 
operational before the end of the funded project. The scope of the research should include 
under-studied regions, zones in conflict areas and under environmental disasters, considering 
existing initiatives, for example the Recommendation on Safeguarding Cultural Heritage in 
Ukraine121.