HORIZON-CL2-2027-01-TRANSFO-04: The impact of EU labour mobility on the 
Member States of the EU 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society - 2027 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 201. 
 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Policymakers gain insights into the economic and social effects of worker mobility 
across the EU, including effects on wages, fiscal budgets, and social systems for both 
sending and receiving regions. 
• The benefits of mobility are maximised through actionable recommendations, which 
consider challenges such as demographic changes, regional effects, digitalisation and, to 
a suitable extent, further developments such as the green transition or adaptation to 
climate change (including its potential impact on the economic development and the 
attractiveness of regions) or the green transition and discussions around the accession of 
further countries to the EU and wider geopolitical instabilities.   
Scope: While the EU facilitates free movement as one of the four freedoms of the single 
market, the long-term social and economic dynamics and implications for both receiving and, 
especially, sending regions remain underexplored. These include not only direct effects on 
fiscal and social budgets but also more subtle impacts, such as on the networks, skills, and 
experiences that individuals bring back to their home regions, but also on the income 
distribution in the country from which the movers originate. 
Gaining a deeper, data -supported understanding of these diverse often complex effects is 
crucial for shaping policies that effectively harness the benefits of mobility across Europe. In 
doing so the research shall contribute to the ongoing efforts of strengthening the internal 
market and make Europe more competitive, while also ensuring social fairness and delivering 
on the European Pillar of Social Rights, in particular with regard to fair working conditions 
and ensuring access to adequate income and social protection for all. For the variations across 
different groups (including - but not limited to - gender, age, level of qualification) could be 
explored. Harnessing the benefits of mobility is also to be seen in the wider context of the 
green and digital transitions, necessitating enhanced labour mobility to address skill 
mismatches and shortages and demographic challenges.  
Proposals should build on relevant previous research (including from SSH disciplines), some 
of which has been conducted in previous Horizon Europe and Horizon 2020 projects 202. 
Proposals should have a clear focus. Quantitative approaches and/or econometrics should be 
part of the proposed methodology. Approaches which can capture developments over time, 
such as panel analysis, might thereby be of added value.  
Projects should analyse the effects of labour mobility on the functioning of social security 
systems (eventually differentiating between the different pillars of the social security systems, 
e.g. pension system, health, care, etc.) in countries of origin and destination and their 
 
coordination and/or provide research which fosters an informed debate on potential strategies 
for a future-proof and efficient EU-level social security coordination. 
Beyond that, the projects may:  
• Explore ways to improve the quantification of the volume of various forms [e.g. long -
term movers, seasonal work and other forms of short -term mobility, postings, cross -
border (tele -)work etc] of labour mobility and/or make available figures more 
comparable across Member States. 
• Develop economic models to assess the EU-level economic effects of labour mobility. 
• Pay attention to the ecological effects of labour mobility and link those with the socio -
economic effects. 
• Analyse whether and in which way the composition of movers (e.g. skill -level, age 
structure, status in labour market, etc.) matters for the socio -economic effects observed 
in the countries/regions of origin/destination. 
• Provide a comparative analysis of intra-EU labour mobility with labour mobility in other 
world regions or to geographical mobility within Member States.  
• Develop and test a model to forecast labour mobility in different scenarios (e.g. making 
assumptions about the economic and social development in different parts of the EU).  
• Take an evidence -based position whether – and in which way - geographical mobility 
contributes to manage economic change (e.g. whether movers are more willing to work 
in another sector). 
• Analyse to which extent and under which conditions regions with net -outward mobility 
have benefited or can benefit – eventually in the longer run – from this mobility.  
• Investigate the economic and social differences between labour migration and labour 
mobility, the experience with EU enlargement might be used to analyse this.  
• Provide evidence on which policy instruments are most suitable to ensure a labour 
mobility which is not perceived as unfair (e.g linked to exploitation, social dumping 
etc.).   
These aspects illustrate thematic areas which could contribute to the objective of developing a 
vision for the future of labour mobility in the European Union and to discuss how legal and 
institutional frameworks can be adapted to support mobility in a way that is both 
economically and socially beneficial. This includes modernising the coordination of social 
security and ensuring that policies reflect the realities of modern society and work 
arrangements. 
Where applicable, proposals should leverage the data and services available through European 
Research Infrastructures federated under the European Open Science Cloud (EOSC), as well 
as data from relevant Data Spaces. Particular efforts should be made to ensure that the data 
produced in the context of this topic is FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Re -
usable).