HORIZON-CL2-2027-01-HERITAGE-06: Future-proofing sustainable cultural tourism 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society - 2027 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
4.00 and 4.80 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 14.50 million. 
 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 146. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to the first expected outcome, plus those under 
either Focus 1 or Focus 2, depending on the chosen focus 
• Evidence-based policy recommendations and solutions for integrating cultural tourism 
into strategies for regenerative sustainability, environmental protection (for example, 
from degradation or biodiversity loss), digital transformation, social inclusion and 
gender equality at all levels of government. As a result, cultural tourism becomes a 
stronger driver of regenerative sustainable development, increases workforce numbers 
and skills, and improves working conditions. Research impact is maximised through 
coordinated dissemination and policy co -creation, facilitating implementation of 
research-based solutions by policymakers and stakeholders.  
Focus 1 
• A comprehensive analytical framework for ethical AI integration in sustainable cultural 
tourism balancing sustainable competitiveness with cultural authenticity and inclusivity. 
• Methodological frameworks and tools for AI -assisted foresight in cultural tourism 
enabling policymakers, civil society and stakeholders to anticipate changes and adapt 
strategies proactively.  
Focus 2 
 
• Evidence-based, community -centric models and strategies for sustainable cultural 
tourism in emerging and less -developed destinations, adaptable to diverse contexts 
within and beyond the EU. 
• An international collaborative network for small business and civil society in cultural 
tourism, focused on cross -border partnerships, regenerative practices and equitable 
benefit-sharing. This network will connect stakeholders with researchers, policymakers, 
expertise, and resources to co -create culturally respectful, regenerative cultural tourism 
models and improve workforce conditions in underserved regions.  
Scope: Cultural tourism accounts for about 40% of global tourism147 and continues to grow as 
travellers seek unique, authentic, and immersive experiences. In addition to its economic 
benefits, cultural tourism enriches societies through cultural exchange and cross -cultural 
understanding. The sector faces major transformation driven by technological advancement, 
shifting consumer expectations, climate change, sustainability imperatives, environmental 
degradation and threats to cultural integrity – including commodification and heritage 
degradation. Furthermore, there is a growing emphasis on inclusive and meaningful travel 
experiences, including accessibility for travellers with disabilities and others with specific 
needs. This topic takes a multidimensional approach to future -proofing sustainable cultural 
tourism amid technological, social and environmental change across the EU and beyond. 
Proposals should select either Focus 1 or Focus 2 and clearly state their selection: 
Focus 1: Transformative AI integration and strategic foresight for cultural tourism 
resilience 
Proposals are expected to explore how integrating AI -powered tools and other emerging 
technologies with cultural tourism can strengthen its resilience, inclusivity, and sustainability. 
Additionally, through AI -assisted participatory foresight proposals should address the need 
for tourism systems to move from reactive management to anticipatory governance models, 
building resilience to global challenges. 
Proposals should investigate AI applications that reshape cultural tourism experiences while 
ensuring that they remain authentic and respectful of local integrity; enhance inclusivity, 
including equal access to technology and improved accessibility for persons with disabilities; 
help manage visitor pressure. They could leverage available public and private data and 
infrastructures, such as the European Data space for Tourism. 148  Building on recent 
developments in AI and immersive technologies, proposals could for example use AI -
powered virtual and augmented reality to boost visitor engagement and cross -cultural 
appreciation of cultural sites while preserving historical integrity. They should investigate 
novel approaches to AI -driven personalisation that develop inclusive, non -discriminatory, 
tailored cultural experiences, which are ethically managed, and ensure fair representation of 
minority or lesser-known heritage and cultural expressions. 
 
Proposals could analyse the integration of AI in multilingual interpretation and cultural 
mediation to overcome language barriers and deepen cultural understanding of local contexts 
or develop and refine AI -powered tools for visitor flow management, real -time heritage 
monitoring, and balancing preservation with inclusive tourism. 
Furthermore, proposals are expected to develop methodological frameworks for applying AI -
assisted foresight (scenario planning, horizon scanning, among others to anticipate trends and 
challenges in cultural tourism – such as shifts in visitor behaviour, cultural commodification 
risks, and potential disruptions (eg related to climate, pandemics, energy crises), enabling the 
identification of opportunities and risks and fostering proactive, data -informed policy 
responses. AI-based predictive analytics should be combined with participatory workshops to 
engage local communities, authorities, and cultural organisations in co -creating forward -
looking sustainable tourism strategies. 
Focus 2: Cultural tourism as a catalyst for sustainable local development 
Proposals are expected to develop sustainable cultural tourism frameworks and strategies 
tailored to emerging and less -developed destinations, especially in low -income and lesser -
known regions seeking to leverage culture and creativity for economic growth and social 
development, including through addressing depopulation and preventing overtourism. These 
frameworks may foster creative entrepreneurial ecosystems for regional development. 
Partnerships with non-EU countries are encouraged. Proposals should investigate cross-border 
collaboration models that enable mutual learning, upskilling, fair working conditions, 
knowledge transfer and capacity building between EU and non -EU partners. Proposals should 
identify and adapt proven sustainable cultural tourism models to diverse less -developed 
settings (urban, peri-urban, rural) emphasizing equitable benefit -sharing. The research should 
include the analysis of case studies of successful community integration in cultural tourism 
decision-making. Partnerships among local communities, creative industries (including 
crafts), local businesses and cultural heritage organisations should be prioritised to co -create 
economically viable, environmentally balanced, authentic and culturally respectful tourism 
offerings, potentially using living labs and pilot demonstrations. Projects are expected to 
establish collaborative networks for small businesses and civil society actors in cultural 
tourism, supporting them through access to researchers, policymakers, expertise, knowledge, 
resources and collaborative opportunities. 
Regardless of focus, all proposals should ensure cooperation with and policy uptake of 
existing knowledge, tools, and best practices from past and ongoing EU -funded research on 
cultural tourism and related areas 149. They should develop frameworks integrating cultural 
tourism with broader sustainability, digital transformation, and social inclusion goals. 
Furthermore, they should create co -creative policy development methodologies involving 
diverse stakeholders (policymakers across various government levels, local communities, 
NGOs, businesses, industry) to translate research insights into evidence -based strategies and 
contextually appropriate interventions boosting cultural tourism as a resource for sustainable 
 
development and fostering workforce growth and skills, and improved working conditions in 
cultural tourism. Finally, they should establish continuous knowledge exchange mechanisms 
among researchers, practitioners, and policymakers to ensure ongoing relevance and impact.