HORIZON-CL2-2026-01-HERITAGE-04: Towards a fair and transparent market for 
cultural and creative content in the era of generative AI 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 98. 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• An in-depth analysis of the socio -economic dimensions and impacts of generative AI on 
the cultural and creative sectors and related societal implications. Particular attention 
should be paid to rights and remuneration of creators, diversity of cultural expression, 
audience perception, consumption patterns, market dynamics, value chains, royalty 
allocation and the effectiveness of copyright infrastructure. 
• Scenarios, value chains, standards and robust, agile solutions to ensure transparency and 
trust in the generative AI supply chain are developed, aiming for a fair and transparent 
market for cultural and creative content. This includes: systems for content provenance 
detection of AI-generated and manipulated creative content; tools and infrastructure that 
reinforce rights management, creators’ consent, control, and fair compensation for the 
use of their works in AI training and generation; measures supporting the findability and 
discoverability of trustworthy cultural and creative content; mechanisms for the long -
term preservation and stewardship of AI-generated creative works.  
• Adaptive policy frameworks, recommendations, and solutions that embed cultural and 
ethical considerations in AI development for/with CCSI. These should ensure a fair and 
ethical market for cultural and creative content, products and services. Concrete 
solutions to address identified challenges and ensure equitable and sustainable creative 
economies, including agile mechanisms to ensure equitable value distribution, are 
proposed.  
• A systemic innovation framework for sustainable CCSI is developed and validated. It 
enables agile experimentation, design, and testing of future -proof business models, that 
support compliance with ethical standards, legal requirements, and resource -efficient 
practices adaptable to market and technological changes.   
Scope: The impact of generative AI on the CCSI and society is complex and multifaceted 99. 
While it offers new possibilities, it also raises concerns, particularly regarding copyright, 
revenue models, employment patterns, and audience engagement. Understanding these socio -
economic impacts, including how AI shifts the way the arts and culture are understood, 
created, practiced, and learnt, is crucial. 
 
Generative AI can produce outputs potentially competing with human -created content. AI can 
also facilitate the manipulation of creative works, potentially infringing copyright or 
misleading users. Increasing transparency of AI generated or manipulated content may help to 
distinguish between human-created and machine-generated content and inform new practices 
for content dissemination and consumption. 
Challenges related to the availability of quality data for AI applications and to the accuracy 
and reliability of cultural content should be investigated and addressed. In particular, the 
development of Generative AI technologies requires access to vast amounts of content that is 
often still protected by copyright. One of the challenges in this context is linked to the 
difficulty to identify copyrighted works, rightsholders and information on how their works 
may be used. The purpose of the insights gained is to inform novel practices for managing AI-
generated content in cultural and creative fields, including the preservation of valuable 
outputs, such as artworks created by using AI, and to inform the establishment of adequate 
policy and legal frameworks and infrastructures. 
Proposals should primarily address the following dimensions: 
• Investigate and identify emerging trends, including through scenario analysis, and 
estimate the economic and social implications and impact of AI-generated outputs on the 
creative content market and related services, and on different actors and sectors, with a 
special focus on creators’ rights, earnings, allocation of royalties, as well as on diversity, 
inclusion, consumption and user perception of cultural products and services. 
• Examine and propose policy and legal frameworks to ensure a sustainable and 
innovative creative sector in the age of AI. 
• Propose standards and robust solutions to map the generative -AI supply chain, identify, 
trace and find trusted content, and ensure authenticity; tools for strengthening consent, 
control, rights management and compensation for the use of artistic and creative data in 
AI; suggest other measures to ensure a fair and transparent market for cultural and 
creative content, including solutions to increase the discoverability of trustworthy 
cultural and creative content, including copyright protected content that could be used 
for the AI training. 
• Investigate new, efficient ways to redefine value creation and transformed business 
models. This includes looking at uncovering opportunities that support human creation, 
and increase profitability, while providing frameworks for the distribution of AI -
generated and/or assisted creative content, and measures for long term preservation of 
valuable works created with the use of AI. 
• Systemic and agile innovation: propose a validated framework to experiment, design, 
prototype and test new business models that can adapt to a rapidly evolving market, are 
resource efficient, and comply with ethical and regulatory frameworks.   
By integrating these findings and insights, risks associated with generative AI can be 
mitigated and new positive prospects developed. Insights gained are expected to contribute to 
the EU’s global leadership in creativity and innovation. 
Proposals should consider relevant policy initiatives, such as the AI Continent Action Plan 
and the envisaged AI dedicated strategy for the cultural and creative sectors100, and build upon 
existing research and innovation outcomes. Proposals selected under this call should 
collaborate and, if relevant, build upon the research developed by projects retained under call 
HORIZON-CL2-2025-01-HERITAGE-04.