HORIZON-CL2-2026-01-DEMOCRACY-09: Citizenship education as part of lifelong 
learning 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.50 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 16.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 40. 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Policymakers, educators, and other relevant actors have tools and recommendations to 
put in place more opportunities for lifelong civic and citizenship 41 learning, in support of 
democracy and democratic participation, including by relying on the opportunities 
offered by digital means, notably civic tech. 
• Policymakers at local, regional, national and EU level have tools and recommendations 
for ensuring the participation of citizens in democratic life, whatever their background, 
especially those who face barriers to participation in democratic processes.   
 
Scope: A healthy democracy relies on citizens being able to make informed democratic 
choices, in free and fair elections. Meaningful and inclusive citizens’ participation and 
engagement can further complement and reinforce representative democracies and foster trust 
in public institutions. Education plays a major role in supporting active interest in democratic 
participation and citizen engagement. Accessible education in matters of democracy and 
participation in public -policy making is a lifelong process that concerns all age groups in 
society regardless of their educational and socio-economic backgrounds. 
Lifelong learning about democratic processes, civic rights and obligations is crucial. It is a 
long process that concerns not only young people but also older ones. A healthy democracy 
relies on meaningful, inclusive engagement from citizens across all ages and demographic 
groups on a continuous basis. It is important to sustain lifelong civic participation, as 
technological, geopolitical and economic changes pose new challenges to social cohesion and 
the equal participation of all citizens in democratic processes. 
The focus of this topic is on how citizenship education as part of lifelong learning can boost 
citizens’ democratic involvement and civic engagement. Research should look at how 
vocational education and training (VET) (e.g. at secondary and post -secondary levels), 
including apprenticeships, or adult education programmes, can raise civic knowledge, 
political awareness, and attachment to democratic values, such as respect for human dignity, 
freedom, equality and the rule of law. Projects should examine either VET or adult education 
programmes. Research should further investigate how involvement in these programmes is 
linked to increased civic participation actions like voting or standing as a candidate in 
elections, engaging in public policy -making processes, or broader democratic participation 
such as volunteering or engaging with civil society organisations.  
Research could also explore how VET or adult learning programmes could support citizens 
including persons with disabilities, in enhancing their digital and media literacy skills, and 
navigating and understanding the rapidly changing democratic information ecosystem, for 
example by being able to recognise disinformation and make use of digital tools for 
democratic engagement.  
Research should test and pilot innovative methods and curricula to develop citizenship 
awareness for VET or adult education teachers and students.  
A gender and intersectional perspective should be systematically integrated throughout the 
research, as well as the perspective of other groups that are marginalised, underrepresented in 
political decision -making, face barriers due to accessibility issues, or are at risk of 
disengagement. 
Research may also examine digital and media literacy to foster critical thinking, to shape and 
develop citizens’ media and other competencies of citizens, and make recommendations for 
best practices in this area. Proposals may also examine democratic participation among ageing 
populations for whom digital tools are a barrier and propose recommendations for solutions to 
improve their participation. While digital tools can support engagement, research may also 
examine non-digital, person-to-person approaches that support participation, including in an 
inter-generational setting. 
Proposals should seek collaboration with the European Partnership on Social Transformations 
and Resilience.