HORIZON-CL2-2026-01-DEMOCRACY-07: Supporting post -conflict democracy and 
reconstruction 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.50 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 35. 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• EU national and local policymakers develop and implement effective strategies for 
sustainable peace and democratic reconstruction in post -conflict areas, promoting 
stability, inclusivity, equity, security, human rights, and strengthening integrity and 
anticorruption measures to ensure transparent, accountable, and ethical use of 
reconstruction aid. 
• EU and national policymakers inform their decision -making with evidence -based 
recommendations on international cooperation, EU democracy support, and civil society 
engagement in post -conflict reconstruction, leading to more effective, inclusive and 
sustainable reconstruction efforts. 
 
• Local civil society organisations and community groups, with a focus on persons and 
groups in a vulnerable situation in post -conflict countries, provide guidance and support 
to educators, media professionals, public administrators, and other stakeholders on 
promoting reconciliation, accountability, and sustainable peace. 
• Specialised service providers, including NGOs and community organisations, offer 
support services and programmes to veterans and the persons and groups in a vulnerable 
situation affected by the conflict reintegrating them into democratic societies, addressing 
their socio -economic and psychological needs and promoting successful reintegration 
into civilian life.   
Scope: The aftermath of conflict poses significant challenges for rebuilding democratic 
institutions, promoting social dialogue, and achieving sustainable peace. In conflict and post -
conflict areas, the destruction of infrastructure, institutions, and social fabric can lead to 
prolonged instability, increased inequalities, human suffering, and a decline in democratic 
governance. 
This research aims to investigate the complex relationships between post -conflict 
reconstruction, democracy, inequality, and international cooperation, with the ultimate goal of 
promoting reconciliation, accountability, and social dialogue in conflict and post -conflict 
areas. By analysing the causes and consequences of conflicts, examining the role of historical 
narratives and cultural sensibilities, and gathering evidence on key factors such as ethnic 
violence, inequalities, and conflict legacies, this research seeks to inform the development of 
effective prevention, resolution, and reconciliation strategies. Proposals are encouraged to 
examine the prevention of fractured transitions in post -conflict situations, assessing past, 
present, and future divisions, and incorporating intergenerational and transgenerational 
perspectives to address potential challenges and promote a more sustainable transition. 
Research should have an interdisciplinary approach, drawing on insights from SSH 
disciplines such as contemporary historiography, sociology, psychology, legal, political 
science and cultural studies, to examine the complex economic, social, psychological and 
institutional factors that influence post-conflict rebuilding efforts.  
Proposals should adopt a collaborative and interdisciplinary approach, bringing together a 
diverse range of stakeholders, including research institutions, specialized service providers, 
local authorities, civil society organizations, local actors, media and information providers, 
schools, educational organizations, cultural institutions and heritage institutes. In addition, 
particular could be brought to the role of women as peacebuilders 36.This integrative approach 
should combine expertise and experience in areas such as conflict resolution, democratic 
governance, state rebuilding and social cohesion to explore new approaches to post -conflict 
reconstruction. 
Proposals may incorporate participatory research approaches to enhance inclusivity and 
stakeholder engagement, and should also examine innovative methods, such as participatory 
 
governance, inclusive economic development, and community -led reconstruction, to identify 
effective strategies applicable in diverse conflict and post-conflict areas. 
Proposals are encouraged to identify other relevant EU -funded projects related to EU 
democracy support, civil society engagement, and international cooperation on sustainable 
peace and democratic governance, and to explore potential collaboration opportunities with 
them. In order to achieve the topic’s expected outcomes, international cooperation is 
encouraged.