HORIZON-CL2-2027-01-TRANSFO-03: Rethinking sustainable competitiveness 
beyond traditional perspectives: role and contribution of the Social Economy 
Call: Culture, Creativity and Inclusive Society - 2027 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 197. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Social enterprises, traditional firms and investors will benefit from a better 
understanding of the sustainable competitiveness factors of the social economy 198 in 
Europe through knowledge development and know -how on innovative products and 
services, improving quality and productivity, and increasing adaptability, social 
inclusion and sustainable, environmentally friendly (for example biodiversity-enhancing) 
practices. 
• Citizens and traditional private sector will benefit from the increased contribution of the 
social economy to the EU’s sustainable competitiveness and shared prosperity goals. The 
research will inform policy makers and private sector on best practice, policy and 
regulatory reforms aimed at enhancing the social economy's contribution to the EU's 
competitiveness and prosperity goals. 
• The social economy's principles for sustainable competitiveness are promoted, through 
the development of practical and innovative solutions.  
Scope: The European Union is committed to fostering a social market economy that promotes 
sustainable growth, social justice, and economic competitiveness. In this context, the social 
economy has emerged as a potential driver of innovation, job creation, and social inclusion. 
On the other hand, there is still a persistent knowledge gap in the literature when it comes to 
appreciate the multifaceted contribution social economy actors make in shaping and 
 
advancing economic competitiveness within and across the EU society and its impact on 
inclusive wellbeing and the environment (for example, the prevention of environmental 
degradation or loss of biodiversity199). 
Sustainable competitiveness and shared prosperity are key a political priority of the new 
European Commission 200. In this context, the notion of sustainable competitiveness is less 
about relative labour cost and more about skills, innovation, entrepreneurship and adaptation. 
It focuses on the ability for an individual, a firm, a sector, or a country to increase shared 
prosperity in relation to the current and future environment and society. 
The link between social economy and sustainable competitiveness relies on innovation, which 
needs to be made broader, going beyond “mere” technological innovation and embrace social 
or even better societal innovation. 
Proposals should focus on exploring the potential virtuous relationships between social 
economy, sustainable competitiveness and shared prosperity. 
Research (including from SSH disciplines) should focus on a deeper understanding of the 
factors contributing to the sustainable competitiveness of social economy entities on one side 
and, on the other, its possible impact on EU sustainable competitiveness. This requires 
addressing knowledge gaps, such as the lack of a comprehensive framework to measure the 
social economy's contribution to sustainable competitiveness in the European Union. 
Research may undertake a review of existing literature, analysis and develop case studies to 
identify the key enabling factors that make social economy entities competitive in a 
sustainable way, while considering the social, economic, and environmental dimensions. 
To better capture the role of the social economy as one of the drivers of sustainable 
competitiveness, the research may develop a framework to measure its contribution including 
with existing and new indicators and metrics. 
Research may identify best practices, develop toolkit and policy recommendations on how 
social economy in Europe can boost public and private competitiveness linked to EU shared 
prosperity goals (such as well-being and nature preservation). 
The regulatory context and its impact on the social economy's ability to contribute to 
sustainable competitiveness should be considered. 
Activities may involve interdisciplinary research, stakeholder engagement, and policy 
analysis. Researchers may need to draw on expertise from different fields (economics, 
sociology, environmental science, public administration) to develop a comprehensive 
 
understanding of the social economy's role in promoting sustainable competitiveness, in line 
with the EU Green Deal and in the Kunming Montreal Agreement.. 
The scope of this call topic is not limited to any specific sector, value chain or enabling 
factors, however, proposals may put emphasis on a specific one. Collaboration with 
stakeholders from the social economy, private sector, and public sector to develop a deeper 
understanding of the complex relationships between social economy and sustainable 
competitiveness is encouraged.