HORIZON-CL5-2026-05-D5-07: AI-assisted digital aircraft design, manufacturing and 
MRO, towards a competitive aviation 
Call: MOBILITY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 5.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 10.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 252. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
 
• AI-assisted digital aircraft design, redesign and certification – in collaboration with 
existing or improved digital twins and virtual products. 
• AI-assisted design tools for aircraft requirement definition, validation and verification, to 
improve efficiency of the system design activities. 
• AI-assisted digital (i) aircraft manufacturing, (ii) aircraft operation, condition monitoring 
and prediction, (iii) maintenance, repair and overhaul operations.   
Scope: This topic focuses on the development of robust AI-assisted capabilities that will work 
in tandem to digital twins. The term aircraft includes propulsion, aerostructures, systems and 
their integration, if not explicitly addressed. 
Proposals may focus on: 
• Robust, reliable, verifiable and accelerated training of AI-assisted digital capabilities; 
• Efficient and high-performance AI-assisted computing, in connection to complex multi -
disciplinary design and optimisation methodologies – at system and/or at integrated 
level; 
• Protocols, standards and AI -assisted digital capabilities for the entire aircraft 
manufacturing and MRO supply chain; 
• Accelerated experimental validation capabilities of machine learning algorithms, for 
selected industrial use cases, linked to novel EU research and technology infrastructures; 
• Verifiable and reproduceable usage of Generative AI and Large Language Models for 
recommendation systems and information retrieval, especially within areas under 
authority regulation to maintain airworthiness and safety of airframes and their major 
systems (i.e. using Explainable Generative AI or surrogate models); 
• AI-assisted prescriptive maintenance procedures for efficient condition -based 
maintenance and maximized circularity by optimizing the utilization of the globally 
available high-value items (components, engines, airframes); 
• AI-assisted maintenance assistance systems for efficient human-in-the-loop integration.