HORIZON-CL5-2027-06-D6-04: Holistic solutions for CCAM integration in critical 
scenarios (CCAM Partnership) 
Call: MOBILITY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 5.50 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 5.50 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
 
networks. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 5 -6 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B.  
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 289. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Detailed clustered collection of critical use cases and scenarios based on the findings of 
former or current national and international research projects, as well as the 
identification of missing aspects. 
• In-depth analysis of stakeholders that may be affected by critical situations and edge 
cases and that have high interest and/or influence in resolving these situations through 
their capabilities.  
• Availability of real -time holistic situation interpretation services addressing the 
respective needs of road users of all kinds, road operators, service providers and related 
perspectives, as well as its social participation and technological integration, i.e. the role 
of each technological component in the overall system-of-systems. 
• Availability of a “local deconflicting CCAM architecture” that detects and deconflicts 
corner case situations (automatically through active and passive technologies or by 
including remote operation techniques). This includes the capability from online 
calculation of optimal countermeasures to ensure safety, and reduce any negative 
impacts on all road users, by considering available infrastructure (including also 
automated and connected digital components, like sensors, intelligent traffic control 
systems, cooperative communication), and overall conditions. Such an architecture also 
needs to address relevant requirements, particularly in technology and near and far 
 
communications, outlining the technical standards and investments necessary for risk 
mitigation. These may include solutions to increase road users’ situational awareness and 
the provision of reliable, accurate and timely warnings. 
• Establishment of working methods and harmonization of interfaces with national/local 
road authorities, operators and emergency services (e.g. first responders in case of 
accidents), including remote operations and road enforcement. The aim must be the 
creation or adaption of decision -support tools that can be integrated with mobility 
platforms, traffic control systems, and emergency services. This also includes the 
definition of related shared governance models. Understanding of the requirements for 
public road authorities (national and local) to address CCAM critical cases, defining 
their role in supporting and enabling CCAM operations. 
• Enhanced user acceptance through holistic CCAM solutions addressing their individual 
needs and requirements as e.g. road user, customer, operator, service provider, etc., in 
terms of trust, safety, security, etc.   
Scope: Based on the preliminary and final findings of HEADSTART 290 , SUNRISE 291 , 
EVENTS292, ROADVIEW 293 and SYNERGIES 294 (among others), this call is focussing on 
CCAM solutions for critical cases, specifically situations and events that are less regular and 
of higher risk. These cases may also include emergency conditions and unplanned events, on 
local and on larger (regional, national, European) scale, such as extreme weather conditions, 
road incidents, cyberattacks, traffic disruptions, and sudden loss of coverage of the 
Operational Design Domain (ODD). 
CCAM operations may be disturbed under multiple scenarios, and can vary according to the 
type of road, road attributes, traffic conditions, available infrastructure and technology, 
malfunctions, incidents, etc. Depending on the specific circumstances and the dimension of 
the disturbance, the impact on CCAM operations and involved agents (e.g. road users, 
vehicles, VRUs, infrastructure components, emergency services, operators) may vary. 
According to the case and the dimension of the incident, different entities and actors of the 
CCAM system (and even beyond, e.g. regulatory bodies and emergency and crisis response 
centres) are involved and may need to take part to resolve these events in a resilient, safe and 
secure way. 
This call adopts a holistic approach, investigating critical cases not only from 
technological/infrastructure or vehicle -related perspectives (e.g., edge cases for automated 
vehicles) but also from the viewpoint of the user, customer, service provider, authority, city, 
etc. In particular, the focus is on how the CCAM system addresses and mitigates potential 
negative consequences of such events, including safety risks, emissions, loss of trust, and 
similar impacts. Proposed actions are expected to address all of the following aspects: 
 
• Development of a clustered list of critical scenarios, impacted entities, role and relation 
of all stakeholders, the estimated impact and the optimal kind of CCAM -based 
countermeasure. 
• Development and testing of tools and services for the detection of critical situations and 
edge cases, also based on the tools and approaches for robust environment perception 
done in HORIZON-CL5-2026-10-D6-02. 
• Development and testing of CCAM -based countermeasure solutions. Where applicable, 
the use of artificial intelligence methods and digital infrastructure support should be 
considered, aligned also to the tools and approaches for robust decision making done in 
HORIZON-CL5-2026-10-D6-02. The solutions also should reference common EU 
Emergency Response Protocols, e.g. for first responders. Also, the creation of decision -
support tools and the integration of those into mobility platforms, traffic control systems, 
and emergency services must be considered. In general, customer/user understanding 
and trust in the CCAM system is crucial in the adoption of a new service. In building 
trust, it is vital to take into consideration the user perspective and investigate how critical 
cases can be managed in a way that is effective for the improvement of customer 
perception. 
• Validation and evaluation of solutions in terms of resulting risk reduction and potential 
negative impacts of critical cases. Solutions will need to be targeted against the scenarios 
identified and the stakeholders affected and would aim to either eliminate the risk to the 
service resilience or reduce its likelihood and impact as far as reasonably practicable. 
This also includes the quantification of the impact, which may also be deduced by using 
simulation. In addition, also the integration of the solutions into existing platforms needs 
to be validated in relevant environments (TRL 5). The outcomes of this call are expected 
to feed into future CCAM demonstrations.  
This topic requires the effective contribution of SSH disciplines and the involvement of SSH 
experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce 
meaningful and significant effects enhancing the societal impact of the related research 
activities. 
Projects funded under this topic are expected to build on the insights and outcomes of the 
CCAM Technology Observatory, exploring and leveraging complementarities between their 
own activities and the Observatory’s findings. 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on ‘Connected, Cooperative 
and Automated Mobility’ (CCAM). As such, projects resulting from this topic will be 
expected to report on results to the European Partnership ‘Connected, Cooperative and 
Automated Mobility’ (CCAM) in support of the monitoring of its KPIs. 
Projects resulting from this topic are expected to apply the European Common Evaluation 
Methodology (EU-CEM) for CCAM295.