HORIZON-CL5-2026-09-D2-01: Producing battery -grade materials for electrodes 
through sustainable processing and refining of raw materials or developing bio -based 
materials (BATT4EU Partnership) 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 7.10 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 28.30 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to ensure a balanced portfolio of activities covering both 
categories of materials, grants will be awarded not only in order of 
ranking but at least also to one proposal dealing with the technology that 
has not been covered by the proposal selected first, provided they attain 
all thresholds (and subject to available budget). This condition to ensure 
a balanced portfolio will also be considered to be met if one project 
addressing both aspects is funded. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 127. 
 
Expected Outcome: Proposals are expected to contribute to all following points: 
• Significantly reduced EU dependency on imported battery -grade raw materials, 
specifically emerging technologies and carbon-based electrode materials. 
 
• Established European value chains for next -generation battery materials, enhancing the 
EU's technological leadership and strategic autonomy.   
Scope: Proposals under this topic are expected to address all aspects for one of the following 
categories: 
1. Sustainable Processing and Refining of next generation batteries -grade Material, delivering 
all of the following: 
• Development and validation of innovative, environmentally friendly refining 
technologies for producing battery -grade metals and materials suitable for next -
generation battery chemistries. This covers raw and advanced electrode materials for the 
components of sodium-ion batteries or beyond generation 3128 lithium-ion batteries 
• Development of processes achieving significant reductions in carbon and ecological 
footprint, emissions of pollutants, energy usage, and chemical inputs. The selected 
processes should not negatively impact any of the aspects above or cause significant 
harm. 
• Validation of economic viability, environmental sustainability, and technological 
robustness of the proposed refining and processing solutions.  
OR: 
2. Utilising Bio -based Raw Materials for Battery Electrode Materials delivering on all of the 
following: 
• Development of synthetic graphite and/or alternative carbonous materials for battery 
components derived from bio-based European feedstocks (e.g., biomass, agricultural and 
forestry residues, lignocellulosic materials). Inactive components such as binders may 
also be included. 
• Comprehensive characterization and validation of developed electrode materials in 
sodium-ion and lithium -ion battery cells, demonstrating comparable or superior 
performance to conventional graphite electrodes, specifically targeting cycle stability, 
energy density, and charge/discharge rates. 
• Demonstration of credible pathways for pilot -scale production pathways for bio -based 
electrode materials including a clear techno -economic analysis and LCA/LCC impact 
assessment.  
 
The Commission initiative for Safe and Sustainable by Design129 (SSbD) sets a framework for 
assessing the safety and sustainability of chemicals and materials which should be considered 
as a reference for project proposals. 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on Batteries (Batt4EU). As 
such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected to report on the results to the 
European Partnership on Batteries (Batt4EU) in support of the monitoring of its KPIs.