HORIZON-CL5-2026-07-D1-03: Economics of climate change and cost of inaction 
Call: CLIMATE 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 16.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite-based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
For Area A -Global, the consortium must include as beneficiary or 
associated partner at least three independent legal entities established in 
three different low or lower/upper-middle-income countries81. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced portfolio covering different research areas (A and 
B), grants will be awarded to applications not only in order of ranking 
but also to fund at least two highest ranked applications in each area, 
provided that the corresponding applications attain all thresholds.  
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Beneficiaries will be subject to the following additional obligations 
regarding open science practices: Open access to any new modules, 
models or tools developed from scratch or substantially improved with 
 
the use of EU funding under the action must be ensured through 
documentation, availability of model code and input data developed 
under the action. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 82. 
 
Expected Outcome : Project results are expected to contribute to some of the  following 
expected outcomes: 
• A more robust understanding of the costs of climate inaction and their distribution, 
accounting for climate change impacts, foregone co -benefits such as health and 
biodiversity related, and increased adaptation needs, stimulating higher levels of climate 
ambition. 
• Greater consistency in how socio -economic and physical science disciplines address 
climate change with enhanced inter - and transdisciplinary collaboration leading to 
improved, more realistic and more context-specific, regionally differentiated assessments 
of socio -economic impacts of climate change, and tailored tools to better inform 
strategic decisions on climate action, security and resilience by public and private actors. 
• Knowledge on the interactions between climate change impacts, climate action and 
global and regional economic performance is advanced. More clarity is gained on the 
implications of climate change and climate policies on European competitiveness, 
economic security and strategic autonomy, with enhanced assessment of opportunities, 
risks, benefits and costs for the EU economy and citizens. 
• Best available evidence and policy recommendations are made available in a timely 
manner and effectively transferred to inform the Paris Agreement, European Climate 
Risk Assessments (EUCRA), the European Climate Adaptation Plan, the Preparedness 
Union Strategy, the Clean Industrial Deal, IPCC, IPBES and other initiative.  
Scope: As emphasized by the IPCC, it is urgent to better understand the benefits and 
opportunities associated with deep, rapid and sustained mitigation and accelerated adaptation 
action to inform strategic decisions. Comprehensive assessments of the socio -economic 
impacts of climate change are essential for this, however, current approaches face significant 
challenges with a wide uncertainty in global damage estimates, fragmentation, lack of 
 
comparability across methodologies, and reliance on extrapolation from historical data, 
increasingly unrealistic in the context of current unprecedented changes in the climate system. 
Actions should develop and enhance models, methods, and tools to improve the 
understanding of future socio-economic costs of climate inaction (for the purpose of this topic 
defined as insufficient, or delayed action), advancing novel approaches and frameworks to 
address the limitations in existing methodologies, integrating latest scientific evidence, 
diverse data sources and applicable to various conditions and contexts. In this context, actions 
are encouraged to leverage emerging digital capabilities, including, if appropriate, those 
developed under initiatives like Destination Earth. Research should account for the full 
spectrum of climate impacts, such as those from extreme and low -probability high -impact 
events and the consequences of trespassing Earth system tipping points, to ensure more 
comprehensive and accurate assessments. Cascading and compound effects as well as non -
market impacts (e.g. health, biodiversity and ecosystems, migration) should be considered. 
Actions should also contribute to rethinking discount rates and damage functions to better 
reflect the long-term uncertainty of climate impacts and their implications. 
Actions should assess foregone co -benefits and missed opportunities of climate inaction, and 
their distribution, ranging from health -related gains to economic benefits like business and 
industrial opportunities, job creation, energy and economic security, innovation and lower 
costs, as well as environmental and social improvements such as from biodiversity 
conservation, and reduced inequalities. They should assess increased adaptation needs and 
costs associated with inadequate mitigation, accelerated climate impacts, lost resilience, 
crossing of adaptation limits as well as the impact on public budgets 83. To provide the full 
picture, the cost of climate inaction should be compared with the cost of ambitious mitigation 
and adaptation. 
Actions should emphasise treatment of uncertainty, ethics, inequality and justice in the 
economic analysis of climate change. They should explore approaches more compatible with 
planetary boundaries, going beyond traditional welfare and cost-effectiveness models. 
This topic requires interdisciplinary collaboration between physical scientists, economists and 
other relevant SSH disciplines. Actions should include a process of co -design with 
stakeholders (e.g., representatives of governments, public administrations, such as civil 
protection competent authorities, or the private sector) to support uptake of the results. 
Proposals are expected to address only one of the following priority areas, which should be 
clearly indicated: 
Area A: Global 
Analysis should be global in scale, while also providing regionally resolved insights to enable 
comparisons across world regions, distinguishing between developing and developed, and 
duly reflecting diverse circumstances and contexts. International cooperation is generally 
 
encouraged and specifically required with low and lower/upper -middle-income countries84 – 
particularly major GHG emitters 85  such as China (contributing to the EU -China Climate 
Change and Biodiversity (CCB) flagship initiative 86), India, Brazil and Indonesia. It should 
enable delivery of robust, representative and widely accepted estimates, and support scientific 
capacity building where appropriate. 
Area B: The EU 
Actions should focus on the EU. Particular attention should be given to consequences for EU 
industrial performance, security of supply and strategic autonomy. 
All projects funded under this topic are strongly encouraged to collaborate and envisage 
clustering activities together and with other relevant projects in and outside of Horizon 
Europe.