HORIZON-CL5-2026-05-D5-02: Energy -efficient software -defined EVs (2ZERO 
Partnership) 
Call: MOBILITY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
16.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 16.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -7 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 238. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following outcomes: 
• Demonstrated energy -efficient, electric Software Defined Vehicles (SDVs), with 
purposely developed and strategically positioned traction and chassis hardware (HW) 
subsystems leveraging opportunities of the software (SW) abstraction layers as the 
cornerstone of SDV, and overall scalable. 
• Real life demonstration of the value of functional integration in terms of user value 
(ensuring travel time) and responsiveness to user and societal needs (e.g. reduced space 
needed for the vehicles, reduced consumption of resources, responsive to diverse user 
needs and abilities), charging infrastructure (vehicle -to-grid integration), cost (e.g. 
reducing development and integration effort, number, and specs for individual 
components), and energy demand (e.g. load shifting). 
• Testing and validation of vehicle -to-grid (V2G) functionalities in real -world conditions 
to ensure efficient, interoperable and software -driven integration between SDVs, 
recharging infrastructure. 
• Improved energy efficiency and increasing sustainability with optimal -sized batteries 
and long-trip capability with fast charging. 
• Optimal integration and demonstration of HW and SW solutions along with standardised 
interfaces to enable affordable, mass -market EVs, such as but not limited to SDV 
application domains chassis/powertrain (e.g. vehicle size), body comfort and cockpit 
 
(maximizing the interior space, comfort and safety relative to the vehicle's exterior 
dimensions) to achieve efficient, compact designs with minimal and sustainable material 
use239.  
Scope: In the past years a variety of road vehicle technologies on component and sub -system 
level (e. g. mechanical, electro -mechanical, electro-chemical, etc.) have been developed and 
offer the potential to be combined and improve user benefits at the embedded system level. 
The potential to further leverage these developments with Software Defined Vehicle solutions 
(e.g. high-level functionality ranging from energy efficiency and performance improvements 
to personalizing the driving experience) over the lifetime of the vehicle needs to be explored. 
This would bring together developers working at the embedded system level with those 
working on high -level functions also to ensure that novel solutions will conform with 
homologation requirements. Solutions coming from this project must also be compatible with 
current automotive standards, esp. regarding external infrastructure. Compatibility e.g. with 
EVSE regarding ISO 15118-20 must be ensured. 
Proposed actions are expected to address all of the following aspects, where possible building 
upon available open-source building blocks: 
• Investigate the potential of novel propulsion and chassis system/sub -systems packaging 
and performance from a holistic EV architecture perspective and for fast charging, 
significantly improving the current State -of-Art performance via digital solutions and 
leveraging AI when beneficial. 
• Include chassis and traction hardware solutions as well as standardised control and 
physical interfaces to improve innovation speed and software solutions, also leveraging 
the potential of open source. 
• Develop a system architecture to ensure optimal compatibility with the high -level SW 
and the physical powertrain and Electrical/Electronic (E/E) systems (e.g. mechanical, 
electro-mechanical, etc.) with appropriate SW tooling for efficient SDV development, 
integration and validation, e.g. operational functionality, also including driving range 
improvement according to user expectations. Target applications are expected to be fit 
for mass-market M1 C-segment vehicle or below. 
• Identify required software interfaces (Application Programming Interface and/or 
software services), i.e. especially which kind of information/data are required for an 
energy-efficient in the context of powertrain, chassis, automated driving and vehicle 
SW/interfaces needed for vehicle -to-grid functionalities, considering the vehicle and 
environment. 
• Develop solutions that minimize energy use while meeting users’ expectations, such as 
battery management, predictive maintenance, or eco -efficient routing and driving 
systems, leveraging AI -driven workflows when beneficial. When using AI -based 
 
approaches, projects are expected to ensure that the use AI in electric vehicles does not 
increase the overall energy need. 
• Ensure the consistency of data and information from different sources and different 
market players to ensure the scaling potential of solutions (i.e. in -vehicle interfaces as 
part of the Vehicle Signal Specification, e.g. COVESA, Eclipse Software Defined 
Vehicle).240 
• Propose recommendations on possible test protocols for future implementation and 
safety ratings. 
• Collaborate with the Software-defined Vehicle (SDV) initiative under the Chips JU241 by 
adopting relevant existing interfaces and building blocks, and proposing new ones 
developed within the project for potential inclusion in the SDV framework. Ensure close 
coordination with the European Connected and Autonomous Vehicle Alliance (ECAVA) 
announced in the European Automotive Action Plan.  
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on ‘Towards zero emission 
road transport’ (2ZERO). As such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected to report 
on the results to the European Partnership ‘Towards zero emission road transport’ (2ZERO) in 
support of the monitoring of its KPIs.