HORIZON-CL5-2027-03-D5-17: Innovative Solutions for mitigating the environmental 
impact of waterborne transport in marine and aquatic Ecosystems (ZEWT Partnership) 
Call: MOBILITY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 7.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 14.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 5 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL.  
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 269. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes. 
• Improved water resilience and good environmental and good ecological status in 
European waters and contribute to the achievement of the European Union's 
environmental targets, including the European Water Resilience Strategy and the 
European Ocean Pact.  
• A comprehensive understanding of the future environmental impacts of waterborne 
transport on marine and other aquatic ecosystems, addressing in particular pollution 
sources from: i) navigation on renewable low and zero -carbon fuels; and ii) accidental 
spills of renewable low and zero -carbon fuels for marine waters, inland waters and ports 
(water and air quality). 
• Innovative prevention, abatement and mitigation systems and strategies for reducing and 
eliminating the harmful impacts of waterborne transport on waters. 
• Enhanced pollution prevention and mitigation in marine waters, inland waterways and 
port areas, reducing the likelihood and impact of accidents involving renewable low and 
zero-carbon fuels.  
 
Scope: The European Union aims to protect and conserve its marine and freshwater 
environments by achieving Good Environmental and Good Ecological Status 270 . The 
European Water Resilience Strategy and the European Ocean Pact further emphasize the need 
to enhance the resilience of European waters to human -induced pressures. Projects like the 
Horizon Europe EMERGE have researched the impacts of shipping on marine ecosystems. 
The introduction of technologies to decarbonize the sector may enable, to a certain extent, to 
phase-out relevant current sources of water and air pollution. However, renewable low and 
zero-carbon fuels and procedures pose new risks to marine and other aquatic ecosystems like 
rivers and lakes yet to be explored and addressed, both from the normal function of 
waterborne transport271 and from accidental spills of renewable low and zero -carbon fuels. In 
addition, other pollution sources can be addressed today 272 . This topic aims to evaluate, 
forecast, control and mitigate the impact of waterborne transport on marine and other aquatic 
ecosystems, with a focus on developing and demonstrating innovative abatement and 
mitigation systems and strategies to mitigate and eliminate, where possible, the harmful 
impact of waterborne transport in the ocean and inland waters. New technologies and 
solutions addressing the decarbonization of waterborne transport will be considered, as well 
as the potential risks and challenges associated with these. 
Actions should address all of the following aspects:   
1. Evaluate and forecast the environmental impacts of waterborne transport operations on 
marine, rivers and other aquatic ecosystems, in particular regarding the effects of 
renewable low and zero -carbon fuels (with particular attention to accidental spills) and 
related technologies. The proposal may include testing and experimental work in relation 
with spills. 
2. Develop and demonstrate effective response scenarios, including the associated 
abatement technologies and any potential new innovative equipment, for managing 
uncontrolled releases of renewable low and zero -carbon fuels in marine and inland 
waters or in port areas, including dedicated specific procedures and operational 
guidelines. 
3. Modelling scenarios on water and air pollution sources from each ship types and services 
running on renewable low and zero carbon fuels. 
4. Develop and demonstrate innovative and cost -effective abatement and mitigation 
systems and strategies to prevent, eliminate and reduce the harmful impacts of the use of 
renewable low and zero carbon fuels. Relevant TRL5 demonstration of such systems 
should be done. 
5. Identifying training needs and skills requirements to deploy developed solutions, as well 
as in relation to the management and use of renewable low carbon fuels in ports and on 
 
vessels in marine and inland waters, including relevant emergency response 
preparedness. 
6. Develop and demonstrate solutions that improve the resilience of European waters to 
climate change, pollution, and other human -induced pressures, and contribute to 
achieving Good Environmental Status and Good Ecological Status in European waters, 
as well as the objectives of the European Water Resilience Strategy and the European 
Ocean Pact. 
7. Strengthen stakeholder engagement by involving environmental, industry and academic 
associations, to foster inclusive, future -focused environmental responsibility through 
sustainable practices.  
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on ‘Zero Emission 
Waterborne Transport’ (ZEWT). As such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected 
to report on results to the European Partnership ‘Zero Emission Waterborne Transport’ 
(ZEWT) in support of the monitoring of its KPIs.