HORIZON-CL5-2026-03-D3-29: Pre-commercial appraisal for CO2 aquifer storage 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 5.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 25.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 7 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 216. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to the following outcome: 
• Support pre -commercial CO2 geological storage appraisal, speed up storage site 
development, support planning of CO2 capture projects (and related source to store 
linkages), and help closing the storage capacity gap, in particular in Central, Eastern and 
Southern Europe.   
Scope:  
• Carry out a storage site identification and appraisal programme including at least one 
injection pilot test in a deep saline aquifer. Injection tests can be done with water only to 
reduce cost and testing duration, although this could possibly (but not necessarily) be 
complemented by water with CO2 (or N2) to determine the reservoir injectivity with 
different phases. 
• Cooperate with a national competent authority to ensure support in terms of the selection 
of the priority target formations and to have access to existing subsurface data. 
Demonstrate how the test site has been identified, and that CO2 storage is legally 
possible in the designated area. 
• Test sites must be in a saline aquifer at a minimal depth of 800 m, in a geologically 
stable area, with minimal faulting and fracturing, that provide significant scalable 
storage capacity (proven confinement, limited heterogeneity, and with favourable 
porosity and permeability and porosity), and are expected to gain the necessary permits, 
following the appraisal and testing. The geological conditions of the site should be 
defined in term of risks as it is in the Directive, that is, proposed site must demonstrate, 
in line with existing data, that prior analysis shows that, under the proposed conditions of 
use, there is no significant risk of leakage or damage to human health or the 
environment. 
• Tests should be designed as to allow a reliable quantification of the injectivity index. 
Test duration should be optimised to achieve a representative pressure transient 
response. 
• The Horizon Europe grant can support all data acquisition, processing and interpretation, 
modelling, the drilling, completion and logging of the test well, the injectivity test, and 
the measuring & monitoring technologies. These operations can be carried out by the 
consortium or be subcontracted.  
 
This topic contributes to the R&I activity in the SET -Plan CCUS Implementation Plan 217 to 
unlock CO2 storage capacity through support to pre-commercial appraisal activities.