HORIZON-CL5-2027-03-D5-05: Higher Voltage, Megawatt Charging System 
compatible, modular powertrain for Heavy Duty Vehicles (HDV) (2ZERO Partnership) 
Call: MOBILITY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 8.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 16.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite-based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 7 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 247. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Demonstrated integration potential and modularity of next level advanced high -voltage 
systems to benefit cost of Commercial Vehicles (CV) in particular for the Heavy -Duty 
Vehicles (HDV) segment. 
• Improved energy efficiency and higher utilization potential of HDV (ensuring full 
operational capability for the intended usage models) via high -voltage powertrain 
configurations. 
• Demonstrated benefits of high -voltage systems also for fast charging and auxiliary 
components.   
Scope: Major challenges still faced by Heavy Duty Battery Electric Vehicles (HD -BEV) are 
cost and fast charging. As electric vehicles become more attractive through Total Cost of 
Ownership (TCO), significantly higher acquisition costs remain, partly caused by the wide 
spectrum of usage scenarios and a relatively low number of vehicles, which makes 
development costs a significant factor for vehicle price. 
Proposed actions are expected to address all of the following aspects: 
• Simplify system configurations while ensuring energy efficiency for achieving 
economies of scale and extending component lifespans. 
 
• Increase the voltage (post 800V) to an optimal level with regard to efficiency, 
affordability, and performance – and especially the compatibility with Megawatt 
Charging Systems (MCS) – to support faster charging needs and reduction of charging 
losses within the vehicle by 10 %, while considering the context of modularity and 
safety. 
• Demonstrate the benefits of high -voltage systems also for fast charging and addressing 
auxiliary components, e.g. thermal management, including the modular 
interchangeability. 
• Consider the possibility of modular and removable battery systems that would favour 
second-life applications to further enhance sustainability. 
• Develop modular powertrain systems to enable tailored solutions for specific use cases, 
maintain flexibility for broader applications also by developing and defining relevant 
hardware and software interfaces. 
• Demonstrate vehicle solutions in relevant environments to ensure the ability for effective 
integration with innovative Electrical/Electronic (E/E) architecture and thermal 
management strategies, or wider solutions. 
• Evaluate life -cycle costs against previous lower voltage systems in order to identify 
potential improvements.   
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on ‘Towards zero emission 
road transport’ (2ZERO). As such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected to report 
on the results to the European Partnership ‘Towards zero emission road transport’ (2ZERO) in 
support of the monitoring of its KPIs.