HORIZON-CL5-2026-09-D4-04: Validating policies and business models for affordable 
and sustainable housing (Built4People Partnership) 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 5.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 15.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 227. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Better understanding of the factors and interdependencies that influence levels of 
renovation of rental properties in the affordable housing sector; 
• Increased number of policy makers revise policies, regulations, instruments and business 
models to increase the rate of renovation of rental properties in the affordable housing 
sector.   
Scope: The Renovation Wave strategy sets out measures across the whole renovation chain 
that aim to increase the rate and depth of renovations. One of the key principles for housing 
renovation towards 2030 and 2050 is affordability, i.e. making energy efficient, comfortable, 
healthy, sustainable and climate-resilient buildings widely available, in particular for medium 
and lower-income households and vulnerable people and areas. A better understanding of the 
impact of current policy frameworks on the affordable housing sector and on energy poverty 
is needed. 
Proposals are expected to address all of the following: 
• Research the effectiveness and implications of existing policies at different levels of 
governance (from local to European), regulations, support instruments and business 
models on the renovation and provision of rental properties in the affordable housing 
sector. 
• Validate a methodology for comparing the affordability of different types of rented 
properties located in different local housing markets, with different climate conditions, 
and for different demographic groups, including those in a vulnerable situation; 
• Design and validate new or improved solutions (policies, regulations, support 
instruments and/or business models) that improve affordability while still meeting 
decarbonisation targets for the housing sector. Quantify the effects of those solutions on 
the cost of a ‘deep renovation’ of rental properties in the affordable housing sector, 
considering the scale of the renovation (e.g. small multi -apartment buildings, large 
multi-apartment buildings; groups of buildings) and the type of governance and 
ownership models.  
 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on ‘People -centric 
sustainable built environment’ (Built4People). As such, projects resulting from this topic will 
be expected to contribute to the objectives of Built4People, transfer knowledge to its network 
of innovation clusters228 and report on results in support of the monitoring of the Built4People 
KPIs. 
Projects resulting from this topic are encouraged to share information, best practice, and 
results with the 'New European Bauhaus hub for results and impact'.