HORIZON-CL5-2027-02-D3-24: Large scale operational validation and upscaling of 
state-of-the-art (Generative) AI tools and models powering a next generation digital 
energy system 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
10.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 20.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 7 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Advanced, secure frugal (energy -, resource -, data - and cost -efficient, sustainable) AI 
tools for real-time grid operations (including protection), market operations (if relevant) 
and consumer empowerment in distributed energy systems. 
• A demonstrated AI development environment integrated with the upgraded digital spine 
of the energy system and energy-saving consumer applications. 
• Scaled-up capabilities for learning at edge nodes and federated systems using agent -
based architectures. 
• A governance framework and operating model for the Gen(AI)-powered digital spine.   
Scope: Building up on previous actions in Horizon Europe (e.g. the digital spine of the energy 
system in cluster 5 as well as cloud and edge continuum and AI data processing activities in 
cluster 4) and Digital Europe (Common Reference Framework for energy consumer 
applications across the EU, Common Energy Data Space), projects are expected to:   
1. Validate (demo site and operational grid) and scale secure state -of-the-art specialised 
frugal (energy - and resource -efficient, data - and cost -efficient, locally deployed and 
sustainable) open -source (Generative -)AI tools and models for real -time grid (and 
market, if relevant) monitoring, balancing, forecasting and consumer empowerment in a 
distributed energy system. 
2. Demonstrate an AI development environment within the enhanced digital spine of the 
energy system, including its digital twin, which should incorporate the functionality of 
the Common Reference Framework for energy saving applications. 
3. Prototype and validate at scale machine learning at the edge node level and federated at 
swarm level in an agent -based architecture, leveraging new mechanisms for scaling 
down AI models as well as incremental and reinforcement learning. 
4. The project's deliverables should be compatible with the principles of the Common 
European Energy Data Space and consistent with the EU's Apply AI and 
Competitiveness Compass, ensuring that they promote AI adoption and competitiveness 
in line with EU policies, as well as the EU Digitalisation of the energy sector initiatives. 
5. Where relevant and possible, the selected projects are expected to make use of the 
European AI factories and AI gigafactories. 
6. The selected projects are expected, where available, to make use of and further develop 
commonly agreed European standards and to actively collaborate and contribute to the 
work of established and de facto European standards developing organisations and open -
source communities and platforms.  
Selected projects are expected to contribute to the BRIDGE 209  initiative and actively 
participate in its activities.