HORIZON-CL5-2026-03-D3-19: Affordable and sustainable primary equipment for 
Future-Ready multi-terminal HVDC Systems 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
4.00 and 12.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 24.00 million. 
 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -7 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 199. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes: 
• The expansion of High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) infrastructure  across 
Europe is facilitated and supports the EU's energy transition through more performant, 
sustainable and affordable HVDC equipment that ensure higher grid reliability and 
stability. 
• Enhanced affordability and interoperability of HVDC grid equipment. 
• Enhanced reliability and stability  of HVDC Grid, through developing advanced 
protection and control equipment. 
• Enhanced environmental sustainability of HVDC equipment, by reducing their carbon 
footprint and enhancing their sustainability, e.g. through the development of SF6 -free 
alternatives.   
 
Scope: As Europe progresses towards sustainable energy, high-voltage direct current (HVDC) 
systems are vital for the efficient transmission of renewable energy. To optimize these 
systems, challenges like component size, reliability, affordability, interoperability, supply 
chain resilience and life -cycle environmental impact of critical HVDC equipment must be 
addressed. 
To ensure the developed equipment is fit for use and interoperable, the consortium must 
include at least two equipment or system manufacturers, at least two transmission system 
operator (TSO) and at least two research centres. 
The range of expected EU contributions specified in the table above is broad, because the 
types of equipment within the scope of the topic have by nature very different costs; therefore, 
the project costs and the expected EU contribution must be justified according to the scope of 
the project. 
Projects must address all the following items: 
• Investigate and develop primary equipment  suitable for multi -terminal HVDC grids, 
that are small size, lightweight, environment -friendly (e.g. SF6 free, lead free), 
affordable and reliable, such as mechanical or hybrid (mechanical and solid -state) circuit 
breakers, fault current limiters, superconducting or conventional cables, conversion of 
high voltage alternating current (HVAC) overhead lines to HVDC ... 
• Equipment affordability and interoperability  are expected to be sought pragmatically, 
for example through modularisation, standardisation, focus on key functionalities and 
performances, size reduction, use of new components or new materials, … 
• Conduct a comprehensive techno -economic assessment of the  system integration  of 
these technologies into multi-terminal HVDC systems. 
• Test, validate  performances in representative conditions, in relevant or operational 
environment". 
• Contribute to standardisation bodies.