HORIZON-CL5-2026-09-D4-01: Researching the technical, social & economic factors 
impacting the energy performance of Smart Buildings (Built4People Partnership) 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 5.25 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 15.75 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or as 
an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 221. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
 
• Increased evidence of factors such as physiological, behavioural, social, environmental 
and cultural that influence how different user and demographic groups perceive and use 
smart, secured, integrated energy efficient building systems, and how it affects the 
building whole-life cycle and energy savings, as well as occupant satisfaction, health and 
well-being; 
• The design and operation of smart building systems and smart buildings are improved 
making them more user-friendly and effective.  
Scope: Significant investments have been made in developing hardware and software for 
smart buildings. There is still limited understanding how smart buildings solutions impact the 
energy performance of buildings and users’ comfort in practice. Research is required on the 
technical, social, and economic factors that influence how different groups – defined by their 
social, educational, age, and financial status – use and interact with smart buildings and 
systems. The whole -life cycle impacts of smart building have to be better understood, from 
design and construction to operation, maintenance, end -of-life and circular re -use, to ensure 
delivery of sustainable and cost-effective smart building solutions. 
Proposals are expected to address all of the following: 
• Research and quantify how existing and novel smart building solutions meet the needs of 
different social and economic groups (based on their gender, age, educational and 
financial status, etc.); 
• Identify major barriers and enablers for the use of smart building solutions among 
different socio -demographic and socio -economic groups, and research how it impacts 
the energy performance of buildings; 
• Validate of findings in at least three different categories of existing buildings (e.g. 
private residential, social housing, commercial building, office building, etc.), each one 
in a different Member State or Associated Country. 
• Develop actionable recommendations tailored to key stakeholders (such as equipment 
providers, architects, building owners and facility managers) to support the design, 
deployment and operation of inclusive, user-centric smart building solutions.  
This topic requires the effective contribution of SSH disciplines and the involvement of SSH 
experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce 
meaningful and significant effects enhancing the societal impact of the related research 
activities. 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on ‘People -centric 
sustainable built environment’ (Built4People). As such, projects resulting from this topic will 
be expected to contribute to the objectives of Built4People, transfer knowledge to its network 
of innovation clusters222 and report on results in support of the monitoring of the Built4People 
KPIs. 
Selected proposals could consider the involvement of the European Commission's Joint 
Research Centre (JRC) whose contribution could consist of scientific advice and technical 
analysis of solutions and technologies, support to the transfer of research output to standards, 
and access to the European Laboratory for Structural Assessment research infrastructure for 
full-scale testing of buildings.