HORIZON-CL5-2026-03-D3-12: Long -lifetime and optimised use of materials in 
recyclable Ag and In-free Si PV modules (EUPI-PV Partnership) 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 5.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 15.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 5 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 193. 
 
 
Expected Outcome : Photovoltaic (PV) energy systems are one of the cheapest and fastest 
growing sources of electricity generation, largely thanks to an important decrease in the cost 
of solar modules in the last 10 -15 years and to their simple installation. There is no PV 
lifetime definition, but manufacturers usually guarantee a 25 -year lifetime with an expected 
degradation rate of 0.8% per year. Meanwhile, a surge in the number of end -of-life (EOL) PV 
modules is expected, of which crystalline silicon (c -Si) PV is the main type. It would 
therefore be beneficial to improve the eco -design and sustainability of silicon -based solar 
cells and modules, by reducing the use of Critical Raw Materials (CRMs), revalorising the use 
of recycled silicon waste, adopting recyclable/repairable module designs and extending their 
lifetime without compromising their reliability and durability. 
Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected outcomes:    
1. Ultra-low carbon footprint and reduced environmental impact PV cells/modules through 
lifetime extension, Ag or In free, and with designs that allow recyclability and 
repairability; 
2. Support a European economic base which is stronger, more resilient, competitive, and fit 
for the green and digital transitions, by reducing strategic dependencies for critical raw 
materials and components; 
3. Support the execution of the solar energy joint research and innovation agenda.   
Scope: Proposals are expected to: 
• Extend module lifetime up to 40 years with extreme weather resilience; 
• Develop cell/module architectures/designs including recycled content, without In or Ag 
and without harmful substances (Pb, F, etc.) but without compromising their quality and 
reliability; 
• Develop module designs with improved recyclability and repairability; 
• Develop adapted testing methodologies and recycling standards; 
• Provide technical solutions for PV module repair in the field to extend lifetime; 
• Determine the environmental benefits of recycling precious metals.   
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership for Innovation in 
Photovoltaics (EUPI -PV). As such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected to 
report on the results to the European Partnership for Innovation in Photovoltaics (EUPI -PV) 
in support of the monitoring of its KPIs. 
