HORIZON-CL5-2027-02-D3-30: Advancements in Direct Air Capture  
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 8.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 16.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 7 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 218. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to the following outcome: 
• Accelerating the commercial availability of Direct Air Capture technologies.   
 
Scope: Projects are expected to aim at scaling up existing technical solutions to at least the 
level of pilot demonstration in relevant environments (TRL 7 or higher). 
Projects are expected to demonstrate: 
• Improving the cost efficiency of the capture and regeneration process, including Balance 
of Plant; 
• Improving material performance and process designs (e.g. capture/desorption capacity 
and kinetics, durability, long-term stability in air); 
• Potential for manufacturing and scale-up (recycling and reuse of materials); 
• Flexible operation under intermittent or surplus renewable energy supply.   
Depending on the technology, other important issues to address are: 
• Reducing energy use for sorbent/solvent regeneration; 
• Alternative materials for - and approaches to - CO2 separation; 
• Development and demonstration of materials in particular for DAC systems operating in 
cold temperatures or under humid conditions, or in areas with severe air pollution; 
• Accuracy of simulated predictions compared to validation experiments; 
• New designs for efficient, high-flux air contactors, optimised for maximum air contact.   
Projects must develop a comprehensive life cycle assessment to evaluate the environmental 
implications of the entire DAC system, from material extraction and use, energy use and 
greenhouse gas emissions through to end-of-life. 
The use of the European Research Infrastructure for CO2 Capture, Utilisation, Transport and 
Storage ECCSEL is encouraged but not mandatory. 
International cooperation with participating countries of the Mission Innovation Carbon 
Dioxide Removal Mission219 is encouraged.