HORIZON-CL5-2027-01-D1-08: Palaeoclimate science for a better understanding of 
Earth system dynamics 
Call: CLIMATE 
 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 7.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 14.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite-based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 103. 
 
Expected Outcome : Project results are expected to contribute to some of the following 
outcomes: 
• Better process understanding of past climate changes at different time scales, their 
variability and interactions with ecosystems, leading to improved Earth system models; 
• Future climate change scenarios produced in light of past changes in the Earth system, in 
particular warm climates/high sea-level situations, and abrupt transitions; 
• Identification of thresholds in Earth system components and better characterisation of 
driving mechanisms and feedbacks that may be responsible for non -linear behaviours, 
including indicators of abrupt changes, and early warning signals within palaeoclimate 
records; 
• Synthesis of climate variations that can serve as fundamental basis for IPCC assessments 
and benchmarks for model inter-comparisons.   
 
Scope: Palaeoclimatic (including geological, biological and ice -core) records provide 
information on the long-term evolution of the climate, as well as the conditions and processes 
that can drive physical and ecological systems during warm and cold periods, deglaciations 
and abrupt climatic events. The challenge of the research under this topic is to provide robust 
information on palaeoclimate states and events outside the range of variability recorded over 
the past centuries that can serve as guide for the development of Earth system models. 
This challenge will be tackled through some of the following activities: 
• Producing and aggregating in databases high -resolution, well -dated, interoperable 
palaeoclimatic records on climate variability in terms of amplitude, time (onset, duration, 
frequency) and space (location, extension), extending the instrumental time series to 
improve our understating of the proxy records and the quantification of their 
uncertainties; 
• Development of Earth system models with outputs that allow a more direct comparison 
to palaeo data, modelling climate variability, thresholds, and impacts across timescales 
from years to millennia; 
• Describing short- to long-term climate evolution and the natural climate variability using 
quantitative reconstructions from different proxies of past climate periods; 
• Identification of climate -related (including ecological) tipping points and their 
consequences using palaeo data and model experiments. 
• Allowing for consistent integration of large -scale and more regional/local factors to be 
reproduced by climate models using natural forcings.   
Projects should rely on palaeoclimatic data from scientific drilling or coring campaigns, 
sediment records, dendrochronological and other appropriate sources. 
Projects funded under this topic are strongly encouraged to collaborate and envisage 
clustering activities together and with other relevant projects in and outside of Horizon 
Europe.