HORIZON-CL5-2026-03-D3-20: Hybrid AI -Control Framework for a next -generation 
grid-scale energy storage and system integration 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 7.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 14.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 200. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Advanced digital twin and AI technologies (i.e. hybrid) to support proactive grid storage 
management and an effective integration with energy and ancillary services markets, for 
systems with high levels of renewable energy. 
• Optimized energy storage operations resulting in reduced operational and ancillary 
service costs, extended asset lifespans and increased revenues from market participation 
while boosting renewable energy uptake for decarbonization. 
 
• Optimized energy dispatch and storage cycling, increasing grid resilience and cost 
efficiency, aiding in lowering energy costs for consumers.   
Scope: Projects are expected to develop and validate an integrated system that combines grid -
scale energy storage with a hybrid AI control mechanism and optimisation within a digital 
twin framework. This system will enable proactive and adaptive management of storage and 
flexibility assets (e.g. large industrial plants with flexible electricity demand), ensure seamless 
integration with existing grid infrastructures (if applicable also with offshore systems) and 
electricity markets while enhancing system efficiency and resilience (also for rare/extreme 
events). The project will demonstrate real -time management for optimal energy dispatch, 
ancillary services and storage cycling, develop a scalable integration framework for seamless 
cross-border operability, and validate improvements in grid reliability through field 
demonstrations and simulations, providing a potential blueprint for EU -wide deployment. 
Proof of concept studies using PHIL technology applied to scaled systems are expected to be 
used for the proactive and adaptive management algorithms. 
Selected projects are expected to contribute to the BRIDGE initiative 201  and actively 
participate in its activities.