HORIZON-CL5-2027-02-D2-05: Improvement of Adaptability, Flexibility and 
Efficiency of Existing Recycling Processes (BATT4EU Partnership) 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
9.40 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 18.80 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, 
navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must 
make use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and 
services may additionally be used). 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or 
as an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the 
preparation and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Technology Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -7 by the end of the project – 
Readiness Level see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Proposals are expected to contribute to all following points: 
• Improving cost and recovery efficiency of existing scaled recycling technologies 
• Demonstrated technological solutions capable of efficiently recycling diverse feedstocks, 
including production scrap, and mixed lithium-ion battery chemistries 
• Improved European competitiveness by reducing EU dependence on imported raw 
materials through improved recycling processes 
• Demonstrable compliance with the targets and requirements set by the EU Batteries 
Regulation, including recycling efficiency and material recovery rates.   
Scope: Proposals under this topic are expected to specifically address innovation actions that 
enhance the adaptability, flexibility, and operational efficiency of existing battery recycling 
processes. 
Projects are expected to explicitly target improvements for processing mixed input streams, 
particularly production scrap and various lithium-ion battery chemistries 
Proposals are expected to clearly demonstrate technical innovations in black mass processing, 
resulting in the efficient recovery of high -purity battery -grade materials suitable for 
reintroduction into the European battery manufacturing value chain. 
Proposals are expected to address all of the following points: 
• Development and demonstration of recycling technologies capable of handling variable 
composition feedstocks, potentially within the same batch. 
• Optimization of hydrometallurgical and/or pyrometallurgical processes for enhanced 
recovery rates of critical raw metals, aiming to at least achieve recovery efficiencies 
requirements set by the EU Batteries Regulation 
• Detailed techno-economic assessments (TEA) and comprehensive life-cycle assessments 
(LCA), demonstrating significant improvements in energy efficiency, CO2 and 
ecological footprint reduction, and economic viability.  
Where required, proposals should include robust and digitalised sorting technologies and 
other advanced pre-treatment technologies. 
The Commission initiative for Safe and Sustainable by Design140 (SSbD) sets a framework for 
assessing the safety and sustainability of chemicals and materials which should be considered 
as a reference for project proposals. 
Whenever the expected exploitation of project results entails developing, creating, 
manufacturing and marketing a product or process, or in creating and providing a service, the 
plan for the exploitation and dissemination of results must include a strategy for such 
exploitation. The exploitation plans are expected to include preliminary plans for scalability, 
commercialisation, and deployment (feasibility study, business plan) indicating the possible 
funding sources to be potentially used (in particular the Innovation Fund). 
Proposals could consider the involvement of the European Commission's Joint Research 
Centre (JRC)141 whose contribution could consist of providing added value regarding various 
aspects of battery circularity and sustainability. For further information on the JRC’s possible 
contribution to the projects, please, search for additional publicly available information on the 
JRC’s website142 (EU Science Hub) on the NCP portal, or request specific information from 
the JRC (JRC-NCP-Network@ec.europa.eu) 
JRC will assure that all the other applicants receive the same information on the JRC’s 
possible contribution to the project (e.g., via the topic -specific FAQs under the Funding and 
Tenders Portal). 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on Batteries (Batt4EU). As 
such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected to report on the results to the 
European Partnership on Batteries (Batt4EU) in support of the monitoring of its KPIs.