HORIZON-CL5-2026-03-D3-22: AI -driven forecasting algorithms for Grid and 
Consumer friendly Energy Sharing – Societal Readiness pilot 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 203. 
 
 
Expected Outcome : Projects are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Develop and test AI-driven forecasting algorithms that use machine learning processes 
to optimise the value of collective self -consumption through energy sharing for 
communities and citizens 
• Upscale AI tools and models for grid balancing and forecasting to ensure consumer 
participation in a distributed energy system. 
• Analysis of social interactions using advanced methods like game -theoretic models to 
highlight the role of active consumers and communities in energy systems. 
• Deeper understanding of the needs and concerns of diverse social groups involved in or 
potentially affected by the R&I development of the technology, thereby increasing the 
potential for beneficial societal uptake and building trust in results and outcomes. 
• Improvement of operation and maintenance of the grid and distributed assets.   
Scope: AI-driven forecasting algorithms and machine learning can optimize bidirectional 
energy transfers involving flexibility services that can help energy communities and jointly 
acting customers evolve in their role as active participants in the energy system, while 
ensuring the reduced burdens on DSOs and residual suppliers. Innovations in machine 
learning forecasting can help balance energy systems and enable active participation in a 
decentralized, resilient, and digitalized European energy landscape, optimizing self -
consumption and reducing energy costs for consumers. 
This topic is a Societal-Readiness pilot: 
• Proposals should follow the instructions applying to the Societal Readiness pilot, as 
described in the introduction of the Horizon Europe Main Work Programme 2026 -2027 
for Climate, Energy and Mobility. They entail the use of an interdisciplinary approach to 
deepening consideration and responsiveness of R&I activities to societal needs and 
concerns. 
• This topic requires effective contribution of the relevant SSH expertise, including the 
involvement of SSH experts in the consortium, to meaningfully support Societal 
Readiness. Specifically, SSH expertise is expected to facilitate the socio -technological 
interface and enable the design of project objectives with Societal Readiness related 
activities.  
Selected projects are expected to contribute to the BRIDGE initiative 204  and actively 
participate in its activities. 