HORIZON-CL5-2026-05-D5-11: Ports of the future (ZEWT Partnership) 
Call: MOBILITY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
10.50 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
project appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 21.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite-based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 8 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes.    
1. Ensured applicability and replicability of sustainable and digital strategies at port level 
for middle and small -size maritime ports and inland ports across all the EU, balancing 
geography and size. Ensured increased adoption of sustainable waterborne transport 
practices in ports of all sizes.  
2. Sustainable and digital strategies will prepare middle and small -sized ports to enhance 
their competitiveness with a focus on cost -effective and scalable adaptation measures, 
increase their climate resilience and biodiversity friendliness, and improve safety for port 
workers and crews of ships at berth. 
3. Sustainable and digital strategies will reduce emissions of GHG, air and water pollutants 
and other biodiversity impacts from ports, applying innovative solutions for zero -
emission and biodiversity friendly port operations and ships at berth. Strategies should 
be applicable to maritime and inland waterway middle -sized and small -sized ports and 
located throughout Europe. 
4. Contribute to the objectives of the EU Port Strategy. 
5. Development of sustainable and digital strategies that not only enhance the 
competitiveness of middle -sized and small -sized ports but also mitigate health risks for 
populations in port areas.   
Scope: Ports are important multimodal hubs in the supply chain, linking the sea with the 
hinterland, evolving into critical hubs and facilitators of sustainable energies, are clusters of 
industry and circular economy, as well as geo -political and geo -economic resilience. Europe 
needs ports that are competitive and sustainable on local, regional and global levels, and the 
Competitiveness Compass calls for a new strategy to highlight the role that European ports 
will play in the future EU economy. 
The Green Deal aims to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 and to reverse the degradation of 
ecosystems by 2030 . The EU Sustainable and Smart Mobility Strategy 256 (SSMS) states that 
infrastructure must be adapted to climate change, less biodiversity harmful and made resilient 
to disasters. In line with the SSMS, it is also important that ports can provide increasing 
volumes of clean and decarbonised energy sources, notably renewable energy, and on a 
modernised grid. 
Proposals are expected to address all the following aspects:   
1. Identify innovative technologies, as well as results from EU -funded research, innovation 
and deployment projects and other technological, economic and social best practices. 
Consider mature technologies ready to be deployed in middle and small -sized ports 
across the EU contributing to the expected outcomes. Address challenges and 
opportunities for the implementation and/or for commercial deployment of these 
solutions in small and medium -sized maritime ports and inland waterway ports located 
throughout the EU. 
2. Developing strategies contributing to the expected outcomes for middle and small ports 
across the EU following a geographical balance, contributing to the objectives of the EU 
Ports Strategy. 
3. Design and demonstrate integrated smart energy systems and grids for port and 
waterborne transport operations, including energy production, storage and OPS 
operations, covering the needs for electrification and charging of port terminal 
equipment, and modes of transport connecting the port to the hinterland, such road 
transport, nearby industry and buildings) to make the solutions more energy - and cost-
effective. 
 
4. Develop climate resilience strategies of middle and small size ports and their 
infrastructure, including adaptation measures to address sea -level rise, extreme weather 
events, and other climate -related risks, with a focus on cost -effective and scalable 
solutions (such as nature -based solutions), building on best practices developed in EU -
funded research projects. 
5. Analyse how VTMIS and port community systems can be developed and exploited to 
their full potential, harmonizing functionalities whenever possible, paving the way to 
automatic shipping. Consider possible linkages to eMSW and eFTI. 
6. Apply digital standards and common semantics which enable the harmonisation of 
collection and analysis of GHG and pollutant emissions at small and medium sized 
TEN-T ports network. 
7. When developing digital solutions proposals should consider cybersecurity implications 
and develop solutions that assess and manage vulnerabilities in IT and OT systems, 
establish robust incident response plans, implement strong access control measures, 
network and supply chain security, in line with EU standards such as the NIS Directive 
and the Cybersecurity Act and with the goal of achieving resilience and redundancy. 
8. Explore long -term workforce requirements for zero -emission, climate -resilient, 
biodiversity friendly, safe and competitive port operations, ensuring continuous 
knowledge transfer between universities, vocational training providers and industry. 
9. Develop a R&I roadmap for solutions of EU and EEA ports to address the areas covered 
under the expected outcomes, taking into consideration 2035 as an intermediate 
milestone and 2050 as the final one. 
10. Explore, with competent authorities and stakeholders, how environmental aspects related 
to zero pollution and circular economy for ports as well as maritime and inland 
waterway vessels can be improved in an environmentally and economically sustainable 
way (through reception facilities, degassing facilities, OPS...), in line with the ambition 
expressed in i.a. NAIADES III, SUMPs, local or regional Air Quality Plans and Waste 
Management Plans. Collaborate with industry stakeholders and regulatory bodies to 
align project outcomes with EU policy objectives, particularly the Port Strategy. 
11. Explore cooperation between ports, as well as stronger horizontal networking, to 
increase the efficiency of undertakings and improve the integration of European ports. 
12. Evaluate the financial implications of proposed solutions and identify possible strategies 
and tools for financing/funding as well as business models that go beyond request of 
public support.  
Solutions at project level must be demonstrated in at least six medium and small -sized TEN-T 
ports ensuring a geographical balance, of which five are maritime ports and one inland. Not 
all solution must necessarily be demonstrated in all ports. 
Proposals are expected to explain the contribution of their objectives, results, IP management 
and exploitation strategy to the EU added value creation and strategic autonomy throughout 
the supply and value chain, including competitiveness of the EU waterborne industry, 
enhancement of the EU’s R&I capacity, technological know -how capabilities and human 
capital, and resilience of the EU industrial and manufacturing base. Proposals are encouraged 
to include synergies with shipyards, equipment manufacturers and providers, including start -
ups and SMEs, located and/or manufacturing in the EU and EEA. 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on ‘Zero Emission 
Waterborne Transport’ (ZEWT). As such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected 
to report on results to the European Partnership ‘Zero Emission Waterborne Transport’ 
(ZEWT) in support of the monitoring of its KPIs.