HORIZON-CL5-2027-02-D3-31: Support to the implementation of an EU policy 
framework for CO2 transport and storage infrastructure 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 5.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
 
project proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 5.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 220. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to the following outcome: 
• Stakeholders involved in the CO2 infrastructure network are in a position to implement 
the upcoming legislative framework for CO2 infrastructure.   
Scope: The project is expected to assist stakeholders involved in the CO2 infrastructure 
network in implementing the upcoming legislative framework for CO2 infrastructure. 
Issues to address include market and cost structure, cross -border integration, interoperability 
and planning, technical harmonisation and investment incentives for new infrastructure, third -
party access, along -chain liability, competent regulatory authorities, tariff regulation, 
ownership and contractual models, baseline of the state of play of current legislation on 
various aspects of the value chain. 
As part of the deliverables, the project is expected to review and report on the current state of 
play concerning the challenges of repurposing existing infrastructure for CO2, also taking into 
account the infrastructure needs of renewable gases. Important issues to analyse include 
technical feasibility, costs, synergies between new (multimodal) CO₂ infrastructure and 
existing systems, regulatory barriers to integrating CO₂ infrastructure with industrial clusters, 
 
CO2 quality, flexibility, robustness, and interconnections between CO2 and energy 
infrastructures.