HORIZON-CL5-2027-04-Two-Stage-D5-09: Noise reduction breakthroughs for new 
ultraefficient aircraft 
Call: BATTERIES and MOBILITY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 2.50 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 5.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 254. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Airframe / cabin noise for new aircraft design; 
• Engine noise sources and installation effects; 
• Noise perception/annoyance and mitigation methodologies.  
Scope: The topic aims to deliver advanced and validated numerical and experimental aero -
acoustic methodologies for the noise prediction of new ultraefficient aircraft designs, 
primarily for large passenger aircraft with new open fan engine architectures and ultra -high 
by-pass ratio architectures. 
The topic should reinforce fundamental understanding, fill gaps and propose new/updated 
technologies towards enabling open fan designs and techno bricks for significantly reduced 
cabin noise. Mayor emphasis is expected to be put to existing/new experimental data and 
procedures, multi -disciplinary design and optimisation, aerodynamics, aeroacoustics and 
noise reduction integrated metamaterials/structures. 
In addition, the proposals may also provide even better noise footprint assessments and better 
annoyance understanding and mitigation methodologies. 
The topic should build upon lessons learnt and gaps identified from H2020.CS2 -LPA-01-D01 
as well as complementing the projects resulted from HORIZON-CL5-2022-D5-01-12.