HORIZON-CL5-2026-07-D1-02: Advancing European climate risk assessments 
Call: CLIMATE 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
4.00 and 5.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 15.00 million. 
 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 76. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following outcomes: 
• The implementation of the European Adaptation Strategy, European Climate Adaptation 
Plan, EU Mission on Adaptation to Climate Change (along with other Green Deal 
Missions), Preparedness Union Strategy, and national adaptation efforts are informed 
with the latest scientific evidence and enhanced through tailored decision-support tools. 
• Knowledge gaps identified in the EU Climate Risk Assessments (EUCRA) 77 and latest 
IPCC assessments are narrowed, including system specific, region specific and cross -
cutting gaps, so that the future EUCRAs benefit from a significant reduction of current 
risk assessment limitations and useful knowledge is available for various policymaking 
contexts.   
Scope: The development and implementation of climate adaptation strategies and plans of the 
EU and Member States rely on the most accurate and decision -useful assessments of climate 
risks that science can provide. For this purpose, the new knowledge feeding future EUCRAs 
will be essential. In the first EUCRA assessment, a number of gaps in terms of knowledge and 
action, and corresponding recommendations are highlighted to underpin more effective EU 
policy intervention to manage climate risks, stressing the importance of a systemic approach 
to climate risk assessments, adaptation and resilience and of the interaction with non -climate 
risk drivers, such as biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation among others. 
 
To support the future EUCRAs and advance adaptation and climate preparedness, actions 
should improve the understanding and quantification of climate risks, their underlying drivers, 
and reduce associated uncertainties for different systems and regions. New knowledge should 
be integrated to assess the risks of wildcards (high impact low probability or black swan 
events), crossing of tipping points and transboundary, compound and cascading risks in a way 
that can facilitate decision-making. 
Evidence from recent experiences of materialised climate risks and the performance of 
adaptation efforts, encompassing the whole range from failure to success and including the 
role of behavioural aspects, should be mapped and analysed to improve understanding of the 
key factors that determine effective environmental and social resilience, preparedness and 
adaptation capacity78. However, developing context-specific adaptation strategies is out of the 
scope of this topic. 
The main focus is tackling knowledge gaps identified in the EUCRA. Actions should extend 
and improve the evidence base by retrieving inputs from relevant end -users, including local 
and regional authorities, and civil society organisations. While general aspects should cover 
the whole EU, actions should also improve understanding of sub -European and national to 
local specific risks. Actions should enhance methodologies and tools for risk assessment, 
making the outputs available through user -oriented EU portals. For these purposes, proposals 
should: 
• Address at least two systems or sectors (e.g. ecosystems, agri -food, health, 
infrastructures, energy, water, economy and finance) that interact and have 
transboundary effects. 
• Include study cases at sub -European scale. While all the cases together should cover the 
4 regions defined in EUCRA 79, some of the individual cases should also address the 
transnational dimension (i.e. include more than one country of the particular region).  
Actions should contribute to future editions of EUCRA. Specific resources should be devoted 
to this purpose. Actions should leverage recent advances on other climate risk assessments 
and related frameworks from reliable sources (e.g. the World Climate Research Programme, 
WCRP). 
Actions are encouraged to integrate multiple data sources and to leverage digital technologies, 
such as AI/ML techniques, tools, and models, including those developed under the European 
Commission’s Destination Earth initiative, if appropriate. 
Coordination and collaboration with relevant projects from Mission Adaptation, Cluster 5 
Destination 1 on Climate Science and Responses is encouraged, especially for evidence 
retrieval, national to local scale assessment, methodological consistency, and cross -
fertilisation through project scientific boards; with projects from Cluster 3 Destination 
 
Disaster-Resilient Society for Europe for knowledge exchange and better integration of end -
user perspectives, and from relevant Destinations in other Clusters. Actions are encouraged to 
make use of the European research infrastructures including Integrated Research 
Infrastructure Services for Climate Change Risks80, if appropriate.