HORIZON-CL5-2027-04-Two-Stage-D2-07: Novel approaches towards next -generation 
battery concepts, leveraging the enabling role of innovative advanced materials 
(BATT4EU and IAM4EU Partnerships)  
Call: BATTERIES and MOBILITY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
4.80 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 48.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Applicants submitting a proposal for a blind evaluation (see General 
Annex F) must not disclose their organisation names, acronyms, logos 
nor names of personnel in the proposal abstract and Part B of their first-
stage application (see General Annex E). 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or 
as an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The first-stage proposals of this topic will be evaluated blindly. 
To ensure a balanced portfolio covering different sectors, grants will be 
awarded to proposals not only in order of ranking but at least also to 
one proposal that is the highest ranked within each of the three areas, 
provided that the proposals attain all thresholds. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 146. 
 
Expected Outcome : Proposals are expected to contribute to the generation of innovative 
battery concepts to safeguard future European competitiveness through innovative battery 
advanced materials and technologies contributing to green energy usage through enhanced 
energy storage and management capabilities. 
Depending on the areas listed in the scope, proposals are expected to cover all the respective 
bullet points: 
Area A:  Development and validation of low -cost battery chemistries particularly suited for 
electric mobility supporting a reliable and flexible energy flow to meet fluctuating demand by 
enabling better integration of diverse energy sources: 
• Proposals are expected to provide the state -of-the-art benchmark for the performance of 
Design-to-Performance lithium -ion batteries 147 and sodium -ion batteries and compare 
the project’s improvements of performance targets to said benchmark. 
• Main component (active and main inactive materials) cost of below €35 per kWh  
OR 
Area B: Development of high-performance battery, particularly suited for aviation and high -
performance mobility boosting green energy adoption by leveraging advanced energy carriers 
and storage solutions to support demanding applications: 
 
• Validation of advanced battery concepts achieving energy density exceeding 500 Wh/kg 
and/or Power density exceeding the state -of-the-art benchmark based on the selected 
application(s).  
OR 
Area C:  Development of durable and reliable battery advanced materials and cell -level 
concepts specifically suited to stationary storage for either grid and/or energy -intensive 
industry applications. 
Scope: Projects are expected to contribute to one of the following battery concepts that meet 
different end-user needs and applications, going beyond state-of-the-art: 
Area A: Low -cost batteries designed primarily for passenger electric vehicles and/or 
stationary storage: 
• Development of battery chemistries utilizing minimised amount of Critical Raw 
Materials  
• Cost reduction through use of smart functionalities, as well as lightweight, functionalised 
and/or simplified casing or cooling concepts etc is encouraged.   
OR 
Area B: High -performance battery chemistries intended for applications requiring superior 
energy density, power density, and safety standards, such as aviation and maritime sectors: 
• Innovative approaches to battery structural integration and multifunctional materials to 
significantly boost gravimetric and volumetric performance.   
OR 
Area C: Novel battery advanced materials and cell -level concepts, for stationary energy 
storage for grid storage and/or energy-intensive industrial applications: 
• If applied for grid storage, solutions should demonstrate potential for cost -effective 
integration at system level (targeting system -level cost below €50/kWh) and provide 
support for multi -hour storage durations to enhance renewable energy uptake and grid 
flexibility. 
• If applied for energy -intensive industrial applications, battery materials and designs 
should address continuous high -load operation, cycling under harsh conditions, and 
reliability over long operational periods, contributing to the electrification and 
decarbonisation of specific industrial processes under study.   
All projects are expected to provide an assessment on all following aspects: 
• Scalability potential, manufacturability, and market relevance. 
• Solutions for extended cycle life, cost-efficient recyclability, and sustainability by design 
(implementing Safe and Sustainable by Design principles) 
• Solutions for enhanced safety, thermal management, performance monitoring, and 
predictive diagnostics.   
The Safe and Sustainable by Design148 (SSbD) framework should be considered as a reference 
for project proposals to guide the innovation process towards safer and more sustainable 
chemicals and advanced materials. 
Proposals could consider the involvement of the European Commission's Joint Research 
Centre (JRC) 149 whose contribution could consist of performing experimental or desk -top 
research on battery performance or safety. For further information on the JRC’s possible 
contribution to the projects, please, search for additional publicly available information on the 
JRC’s website150 (EU Science Hub) on the NCP portal, or request specific information from 
the JRC (JRC-NCP-Network@ec.europa.eu) 
JRC will assure that all the other applicants receive the same information on the JRC’s 
possible contribution to the project (e.g., via the topic -specific FAQs under the Funding and 
Tenders Portal). 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on Batteries (Batt4EU) and 
the co -programmed Partnership Innovative Advanced Materials for the EU (IAM4EU). As 
such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected to report on the results to the 
European Partnership on Batteries (Batt4EU) and IAM4EUin support of the monitoring of its 
KPIs. 
This topic contributes to the industrial action plan for the automotive sector.