HORIZON-CL5-2027-03-D5-08: Sustainable aircraft circular design and additive 
manufacturing, towards a climate neutral aviation 
Call: MOBILITY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 2.50 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 5.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 253. 
 
Expected Outcome : Project results are expected to contribute to both of the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Additive manufacturing including high performance polymers, composites and metals, 
offering significantly improved performance compared to state -of-the-art. Entire process 
including design / manufacturing / characterization and testing / certification. 
• Sustainable aircraft circular design and manufacturing processes of individual high-value 
components towards further developing the innovation pipeline from system 
demonstration to deployment stage in the EU and Associated Countries.   
Scope: This topic focuses on: 
• Additive design and manufacturing of aircraft and engine structural components have 
already transformed the industry and are expected to be the key to the EU 
competitiveness. Geopolitical aspects for raw materials reinforce the importance of 
additive manufacturing, while the European RTOs and industry recognised that there is a 
 
substantial untapped potential towards even higher energy efficiency, savings in critical 
raw materials and higher quality parts. The main objective of this topic is to resolve 
existing challenges in the AD/AM of metal, high performance/value polymer and 
composite parts, related to residual stresses, non -equilibrium phase transformations, 
joining, defects and reproducibility among others. 
• Building on previous research efforts (i.e. H2020-SUSTAINair) and EREA’s Future Sky 
initiatives on circular aviation, proposals should focus to real, challenging and 
competitive industrial use cases for circular design of individual components, joining 
technologies, improved maintenance and repair technologies to extend aircraft lifetime 
and improved recovery of high-quality recycling materials. Especially as regards engines 
and safety critical systems, real -time condition monitoring and inspection methods have 
the potential to improve repairability by determining an optimized degradation status, 
allowing smart repairs on-wing and on-site that reduce or postpone the need for material- 
and energy-intense overhauls or replacements.