HORIZON-CL5-2026-05-D5-12: Shipyards of the future (ZEWT Partnership) 
Call: MOBILITY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
10.50 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 21.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 8 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 257. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes:    
1. A strengthened European value chain cooperation and integration between equipment 
manufacturers and large, medium, and small -scale shipyards resulting in enhanced 
European competitiveness.  
2. Demonstration of improved shipyard manufacturing processes in small and medium -size 
shipyards, capable of building waterborne vessels in the EU/EEA. 
3. Reduced complexity to perform future retrofits of vessels and enabling the later 
inclusion of several emissions saving technologies and solutions. 
4. Higher capability and efficiency of European shipyards and equipment manufacturers to 
meet the increasing need to convert the shipping fleet towards zero -emission and 
biodiversity friendly maritime transport.  
5. Making the shipbuilding and retrofitting industry better prepared for building and 
replicating low-to-zero emission ships.   
Scope: European shipbuilding industry is facing increasing pressure from international 
players, and there is a need to improve its competitiveness through innovation and 
technological advancements. The MARI -4YARD project together with RESURGAM, 
FIBRE4YARDS, SMARTYards and PENELOPE developed several solutions on materials, 
processes, AI and skills. Additionally, the project SEUS in Horizon Europe is developing an 
integrated software platform with the ambition to save time in engineering, assembly and 
construction at European shipyards. However, there is still a need to increase the ambition and 
demonstrate these solutions in medium and small-size shipyards. 
 
At the same time, shipyards are often located in sensitive natural areas, such as coastal regions 
and estuaries. This provides an opportunity for shipyards to evaluate and reduce their impact 
on the surrounding biodiversity. 
The topic aims to improve efficiency and sustainability of European ship newbuilding and 
retrofitting processes, to improve the use of resources and circularity, to develop necessary 
skills and improve working conditions. This requires considering all relevant innovations such 
as robotics, automation, digitalization and AI in the context of shipbuilding to enhance 
EU/EEA -focused value chains. The purpose is to increase the competitiveness of the 
European shipbuilding sector with a view to further replicating and utilizing results, including 
in potential applications to the Innovation Fund. 
Proposals are expected to address all the following aspects:   
1. Deployment and integration of innovative technologies and systems in small and 
medium-size EU and EEA shipyards to enhance the competitiveness and sustainability 
of newbuild, repair and retrofit processes and process chains. 
2. Pilot applications should consider all aspects of the shipbuilding process (including 
technological, business-related and organizational aspects), equipment, and ship design, 
potentially including: a) automation and robotics in shipbuilding processes; b) advanced 
digitalization in design and production; c) innovations in retrofitting and predictive 
maintenance of shipbuilding assets; circular economy in all relevant processes 
(construction, repairs, retrofitting and dismantling). 
3. Pilot applications should also consider systems interoperability and integration with 
existing shipyard infrastructure, tools and equipment. 
4. Explore advanced ways of digital collaboration (co -simulation, sharing digital data) 
while considering cyber security, to improve synergies within value chains, including 
equipment manufacturers, shipyards, ship designers and shipowners. 
5. Testing and physical demonstration of the developed technologies in real life shipyard 
ecosystem and as much as possible in relation with full scale ship building, including 
benchmarking of existing practices and consideration of environmental impacts and 
potential safety improvements for workers. Demonstrations should take place in at least 
three EU/EEA shipyards. 
6. Develop biodiversity friendly strategies, integrating nature -based solutions on site, 
promoting circularity and sustainability of processes. 
7. Additionally, a strategy for skills development should be presented, associating social 
partners and civil society where relevant. 
8. Propose measures to solidify the current strengths of smaller and medium -sized 
shipyards across Europe, with a focus on increasing competitiveness and growth, 
reinforcing and growing European shipyards and improving environmental performance. 
9. For exploitation purposes, proposals should: a) develop business plans and rollout 
strategies, including measures to reduce knowledge and technology leakage outside of 
Europe; b) identify clear target groups (vessel types, segments and processes) and their 
current state, deficiencies and improvement needs, and make a clear exploitation strategy 
on how to roll out the results to end-users.   
Proposals are expected to explain the contribution of their objectives, results, IP management 
and exploitation strategy to the EU added value creation and strategic autonomy throughout 
the supply and value chain, including competitiveness of the EU waterborne industry, 
enhancement of the EU’s R&I capacity, technological know -how capabilities and human 
capital, and resilience of the EU industrial and manufacturing base. Proposals are encouraged 
to include synergies with shipyards, equipment manufacturers and providers, including start -
ups and SMEs, located and/or manufacturing in the EU and EEA. 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on ‘Zero Emission 
Waterborne Transport’ (ZEWT). As such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected 
to report on results to the European Partnership ‘Zero Emission Waterborne Transport’ 
(ZEWT) in support of the monitoring of its KPIs.