HORIZON-CL5-2026-05-D5-13: Safety of renewable low and zero -carbon waterborne 
fuels in port areas: risk assessment, regulatory framework, and guidelines for safe 
bunkering, handling and storage (ZEWT partnership) 
Call: MOBILITY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 2.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 2.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
Agreements object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 258. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes:    
1. A comprehensive risk assessment of the introduction of renewable low and zero -carbon 
waterborne fuels, in maritime and inland port areas. 
2. Improve knowledge on the risks posed by the introduction of renewable low zero -carbon 
fuels. 
3. A review of existing regulations, standards, and guidelines, for all EU Member States, 
with recommendations for updates, harmonisation or new regulations as needed. 
4. Define operational improvements required to enhance safety in storage, handling and 
bunkering of renewable low and zero-carbon fuels.  
5. Development of a strategy for skills development for port personnel and stakeholders 
involved in the handling, storage, and bunkering of renewable low and zero -carbon 
fuels, ensuring safe and efficient operations.   
Scope: The rapid transition to low and zero -carbon solutions in maritime and inland 
waterborne transport requires port authorities and stakeholders to swiftly adapt to supply large 
quantities of renewable low and zero -carbon fuels and electricity. However, this shift poses 
new safety challenges, particularly in port areas where multiple bunkering operations, 
import/export terminals, and fuel handling and storage activities coexist. The close location of 
most ports to cities and inhabited areas raises issues of safety on two fronts: the space deficit 
due to the difficulty of enlarging the port areas in these locations, (leading to e.g. the storage 
of various fuels in close proximity), and the broader danger to these inhabited areas due to 
their proximity to the ports and by extension the storage of these fuels. To ensure a safe and 
efficient energy transition, it is crucial to assess and mitigate the risks associated with the 
introduction of renewable low and zero-carbon fuels in port areas. As not all ports will be able 
to store every type of clean fuel in the port or neighbouring area, safety of transport and 
distribution within the port area (including anchorage) should also be analysed. 
 
Existing EU legislation regarding specifically the safety of port workers is limited. The 
Directive on the safe loading and unloading of bulk carriers (2001/96/EC)  sets out the EU 
requirements which increase safety procedures for bulk carriers loading and unloading their 
solid cargo in EU ports. Further instruments such as the Directive on port State control 
(2009/16/EC) and the Directive on the investigation of accidents in the maritime transport 
sector (2009/18/EC, recently amended) , while related to safety in the maritime sector, do not 
apply to the safety of port workers specifically. Broader instruments such as the EU 
Occupational Safety and Health Framework Directive  (89/391/EEC) and the Directive on the 
Minimum Safety and Health Requirements for the Use of Work Equipment by Workers at 
Work (2009/104/EC), while applicable to port workers due to their general character, miss the 
intricacies needed to address the specific risks of workers in this sector. This issue is further 
exacerbated by the fact that port workers are being exposed to new risks due to the rising use 
of renewable low and zero-carbon fuels in the maritime sector and the need for safe bunkering 
and storage of these fuels in port areas. 
Given the above it is important to have a clear picture of the current status regarding the 
storage and bunkering of fuels across EU ports, identify existing and applicable legislation, 
map gaps and potential risks and make appropriate recommendations for follow-up actions. 
Proposals are expected to address all the following aspects:    
1. Conduct a comprehensive review of the risks associated with the introduction of 
renewable low and zero -carbon fuels within (inland and sea) the port areas, including 
distribution, simultaneous bunkering operations, import/export terminals, handling and 
storage of fuels.  
2. Analyse gaps in existing regulations, standards, and guidelines relevant to the safe 
handling and storage of renewable low and zero -carbon fuels, in maritime and inland 
TEN-T ports. 
3. Identify safety risks not adequately addressed by current rules and risk assessments, 
including Hazard Identification (HAZID) and Quantitative Risk Assessments (QRA) 
taking into account - inter-alia - gas dispersion, fire/explosion impacts and their 
probabilities using F-N curves. 
4. Develop guidelines and recommendations to ensure safe operations (considering 
environmental and health aspects) per fuel type in port areas, considering varying port 
sizes, services (including technical -nautical vessels), locations, and geographies, 
especially for ports located in populated areas including establishing safety zones. 
International rules, standards and guidelines should be taken into consideration 
(especially from the IMO and the IHPA where relevant). Relevant environmental Plans 
required by EU or national legislation such as Air Quality Plans should be considered.  
5. Develop standard risk assessment criteria for groups of ports with similar characteristics, 
operational and weather conditions by researching and establishing standard criteria for 
risk assessments in port planning and development. This includes defining safety -by-
design procedures for new port infrastructures and bunkering operations. 
6. Engage with relevant stakeholders, including port authorities, terminal operators, 
shipping companies, trade unions and regulatory bodies, to ensure the practicality and 
effectiveness of the developed guidelines and recommendations. 
7. Additionally, a strategy for skills development should be presented, associating social 
partners and civil society where relevant. This strategy should include the design and 
implementation of comprehensive training modules tailored to various roles within port 
operations, focusing on the specific safety protocols and procedures associated with 
renewable low and zero-carbon fuels. 
8. Propose certification and continuous professional development pathways to maintain 
high safety standards and adapt to evolving technologies and regulations.   
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on ‘Zero Emission 
Waterborne Transport’ (ZEWT). As such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected 
to report on results to the European Partnership ‘Zero Emission Waterborne Transport’ 
(ZEWT) in support of the monitoring of its KPIs.