HORIZON-CL5-2026-10-D6-06: Increasing competitiveness and resilience of 
multimodal freight transport and logistics for competitive supply chains  
Call: BATTERIES and MOBILITY 
 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.50 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 20.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 7 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B.  
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 304. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes: 
 
• Advanced tools and solutions are developed and demonstrated to enhance the 
competitiveness of European multimodal freight transport networks, ensuring 
sustainability, resilience, security and increased freight transport capacity; 
• Solutions provide real -time visibility, tracking and predictive analytics for multimodal 
services, performance, and network status (e.g., disruptions, maintenance) to support 
better planning and increase shippers' adoption of multimodal transport; 
• Strengthened integration of multimodal (e.g. rail, inland waterway transport and short 
sea shipping) data, along with improved synchromodal solutions, enabling more agile, 
flexible, responsive and resilient multimodal transport logistic systems.   
Scope: Freight transport demand in Europe is expected to double in the coming decades, 
making it essential to enhance the capacity, efficiency, and resilience of freight transport to 
maintain the European competitiveness. Despite policy goals to strengthen multimodal 
transport, double rail freight’s share by 2050, and increase transport by inland waterways and 
short sea shipping by 50% by 2050, unimodal road transport remains more competitive, and 
the growth of multimodal freight has been limited.  
The lack of integration of rail, inland waterways and multimodal data into logistics and supply 
chain solutions is one of the main barriers, hindering the efficient and competitive adoption of 
multimodality. Furthermore, improving system resilience requires better tools and solutions 
for multimodal operators to manage disruptions and ensure supply chain continuity.  
Building on the results of previously funded research projects and initiatives (including e.g. 
the Europe’s Rail Joint Undertaking), proposals should address all of the following aspects:  
• Building on data governance models set in the European Data Act, Common European 
Data Spaces and the electronic Freight Transport Information Regulation, develop 
interoperable tools and solutions integrated in existing platforms and solutions (also 
leveraging the full potential of e.g. Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things and other 
emerging technologies) used by shippers, carriers, freight forwarders, warehouse 
operators, distribution centres, retailers and e -commerce platforms to connect with 
multimodal information (e.g. services, visibility, ETA, etc.). Developing any type of 
digital platform or similar is outside the scope of this topic. The proposed tools and 
solutions should also help operators to react rapidly to disruptions, considering strategies 
and alternatives for cases of failure, accidents, sabotage, force majeure, etc. 
• Map and identify datasets available or to be developed to enhance the integration of 
multimodal solutions in other supply chain processes (e.g. rail timetable information). 
Assess how new technologies (e.g. generative Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things) 
could be leveraged and applied, including, but not limited to, the procurement and 
management of smart containers (e.g. for real -time monitoring of cargo conditions, 
ETA). Explore synchromodality strategies for logistics hubs and multimodal transport 
networks.  
• Based on the business and technical requirements (e.g. transport management systems, 
data structures, data security) of both freight forwarders and shippers, develop 
interoperable solutions and tools to support freight forwarders and multimodal operators 
to address shippers’ demands in terms of information provision and sharing, including as 
regards logistic hubs and first / last mile connections.  
• Define use cases for multimodal transport for intra -European flows between 500 and 
1,000 km (from first to last mile delivery), and collaborative business model(s) to shift 
freight transport demand to multimodal solutions.  
• Validate, measure the performance and demonstrate the proposed solutions and concepts 
in 2 large pilots along segments of the main European freight transport corridors, 
ensuring geographical balance and covering various types of industrial sectors (e.g. fast -
moving consumer goods industry). The pilots should be carried out with the involvement 
and cooperation of relevant transport operators, logistic companies and infrastructure 
managers.  
• Assess and quantify the value generation (also in terms of sustainability and energy 
consumption reduction) of the proposed solutions for the shippers, multimodal operators 
and terminals.  
• Analyse and propose recommendations for contingency plans to address disruptions in 
multimodal supply chains.  
• Provide recommendations on possible revisions to the existing regulatory framework and 
propose initiatives to remove existing barriers to and facilitate, encourage and accelerate 
the adoption of multimodal transport solutions.   
Proposals must plan for an active collaboration amongst the projects selected under this topic 
- for dissemination, evaluation and coordination. Proposals should ensure that appropriate 
provisions for activities and resources aimed at enforcing this collaboration are included in the 
work-plan. Information exchange with Europe’s Rail Joint Undertaking Flagship Area 5 is 
advised to avoid duplicated research. 
If the proposed solutions use position, navigation, and/or timing (PNT) services or data, the 
beneficiaries must make use of Galileo (other GNSS may additionally be used). Where 
appropriate, Galileo services such as OSNMA (Open Service Navigation Message 
Authentication) and HAS (High Accuracy Service) should also be utilised.