HORIZON-CL5-2026-11-D3-06: Resource assessment for deep sedimentary and 
basement reservoirs 
Call: ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.50 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 18.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 168. 
 
 
Expected Outcome: Deep sedimentary/basement reservoirs are usually characterized by low 
permeability, high drilling cost and a scarcity of data, as they are typically ignored by 
hydrocarbon exploration. Major exploration challenges relate to predicting deep sedimentary 
and basement reservoir structures and properties to identify suitable locations for reservoir -
independent approaches, capable of overcoming the low permeability obstacle, such as 
Enhanced Geothermal Systems (EGS) or closed-loop geothermal systems. 
Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Increased knowledge base for developers to unlock unexploited geothermal resources, 
increase drilling success rate, increase geothermal sources performance and reduce the 
risk of induced seismicity and deploy geothermal energy in a sustainable way in 
environmental (notably on biodiversity and pollution) and socioeconomic terms. 
• Citizens and local communities are engaged and benefit from local, more secure and 
affordable renewable energy sources.  
Scope: Advanced methods, technologies and conceptual models, for different geological 
settings, to identify suitable conditions for geothermal resource exploitation, tackling the issue 
of data scarcity and leveraging the information available. The proposals are expected to 
contribute to the assessment of environmental and social impacts and to unlock geothermal 
resources marked by low natural permeability at depths between 2000-6000m. 
The scope covers advances beyond the state of the art in equipment, methods and models 
capable of providing in -depth understanding and predictive power for properties and 
processes beyond conventional depths. The proposals are expected to take into account the 
impact of reservoir conditions and parameters (i.e. in-situ stress, temperature, geo-mechanical, 
chemical properties) on the development and performance of the geothermal resources, 
covering, when relevant, aspects such as the suitability for different stimulation techniques, 
well designs and completion technologies, the possibilities for the coproduction of raw 
materials, wellbore stability. 
The proposals are expected to validate the benefit of the proposed solution in the context of 
state-of-the-art decision and risk analysis methods. 
To ensure trust building and communities’ support, partners are expected to practice inclusive 
societal engagement, which is early, continuous, and sensitive to the technical specificities 
(e.g. impact on biodiversity, water balance, pollution, land occupation, visual impact, noise as 
well as geo -mechanical changes (e.g. seismicity) and underground changes (e.g. disturbance 
of non-targeted aquifers)) that could affect local communities and ecosystems 169. 
This topic requires the effective contribution of SSH disciplines and the involvement of SSH 
experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce 
 
meaningful and significant effects enhancing the societal impact of the related research 
activities.