HORIZON-CL5-2027-07-D3-16: Industrial processes and equipment for innovative, 
reliable and scalable tandem technologies (EUPI-PV Partnership) 
Call: ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
9.50 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 28.50 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6-7 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome : The REPowerEU plan and the EU Solar Energy Strategy introduced 
targets for the deployment of solar PV amounting to 600 GWac by 2030. Complying with 
these targets will be crucial for the European Union to reach its climate targets and free itself 
from import dependency on fossil fuels and the costs this imposes on Europe’s 
competitiveness in terms of high energy prices. The Solar Strategy also introduces a target, 
which has been enshrined into the Net-Zero Industry Act, to re-consolidate the European solar 
manufacturing sector and scale up European manufacturing capacity across the entire value 
chain to at least 40% of the EU’s annual deployment needs, or 30 GW of annual capacity by 
2030. Innovation is particularly important in the solar PV sector, which is characterised by a 
short technology cycle, where new technologies become mainstream in only a few years. 
Novel tandem technologies offer therefore the opportunity for innovative spin -offs or start -
ups and scale -ups to manufacture and put on the market competitive and efficient PV 
products, strengthening the resilience of the EU PV value chain and thus reducing excessive 
dependencies and increasing security. 
Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected outcomes:    
1. Increase the potential for commercialisation of tandem PV technologies creating a 
competitive technological know-how for the European PV industrial base; 
2. Contribute to the objectives of the EU Solar PV Industry Alliance; 
3. Support the execution of the solar energy joint research and innovation agenda.   
Scope: Proposals are expected to: 
• Demonstrate tandem technologies with similar lifetimes to Si and higher efficiencies 
(beyond the Si limits); 
• Demonstrate interface and thin-film large scale engineering; 
• Demonstrate production processes and equipment ready for large scale deployment.   
Whenever the expected exploitation of project results entails developing, creating, 
manufacturing and marketing a product or process, or in creating and providing a service, the 
plan for the exploitation and dissemination of results must include a strategy for such 
exploitation. Proposals will present a plan for the exploitation and dissemination of results 
which should include a strong business case and sound exploitation strategy. The exploitation 
plan should include preliminary plans for scalability, commercialisation, and deployment 
(feasibility study, business plan) indicating the possible funding sources to be potentially used 
(in particular the Innovation Fund). 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership for Innovation in 
Photovoltaics (EUPI -PV). As such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected to 
report on the results to the European Partnership for Innovation in Photovoltaics (EUPI -PV) 
in support of the monitoring of its KPIs.