HORIZON-CL5-2027-03-D5-16: Autonomous vessels in short sea shipping and inland 
waterways  
Call: MOBILITY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 7.50 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 15.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 7 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 263. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project outputs and results are expected to contribute to all the following 
expected outcomes:   
1. Demonstration of remote-control operation of vessels without crew, controlled remotely 
(degree three264). 
  
2. Development of concepts for fully autonomous ship where the operating system on the 
vessel is able to make decisions and determine actions by itself (degree four265). 
  
 
3. Strengthen market confidence in the integration of remote and automated navigation in 
ship types and services that may see a shortage of workforce in the next decade. 
4. Contribute to the EU Port Strategy and the EU Industrial Waterborne Strategy, as well as 
the EU AI Continent Action Plan266 and the upcoming EU Apply AI Strategy.  
Scope: Maritime Autonomous Surface Ships (MASS) have been the focus for several projects 
both with EU-funding and individual countries but a major breakthrough leading to extensive 
deployment and widespread commercial maturity are still not achieved. Autonomous vessels 
can offer safer and more efficient operations and cost savings. New skills and training needed 
for MASS is a critical issue to ensure safe operations. 
Projects are expected to address all the following aspects:   
1. Demonstration of two different remotely controlled vessels without seafarers on board, 
considering the most promising areas of operation and types of ships towards market 
adoption. The demonstration should be performed in at least one short -sea shipping 
vessel. 
2. Demonstration of two different fully autonomous operation in at least one inland 
waterway vessel. 
3. Demonstrations and concept studies should address the whole navigation voyage, 
including port calling, mooring, and berthing, potential offshore charging solutions, and 
passing through locks in all weather conditions267. 
4. Demonstrations should also include aspects for predictive maintenance, self -diagnostic 
systems to ensure optimal functioning of the vessel’s equipment and structure 
5. Identify and address implementation bottlenecks for relevant ship types, such as data 
quality and lack of infrastructure related to waterborne transport. Map infrastructure and 
investment needs for extensive roll-out for automated ships operations 
6. Appropriate steps to ensure sufficient cyber risk management of the systems and 
infrastructure used when conducting trials268. 
7. Address standardization needs and possible safeguards to secure data -integrity and cyber 
security. Provide recommendations to the relevant regulatory bodies. 
 
8. Address the risk of unlawful data transfer to third -countries outside the borders of the 
EU/EEA and the impacts it could have on EU fleets. 
9. Integrate ongoing legal processes at EU level and at the IMO related to inland automated 
vessels and MASS i.e., MASS Code, Search&Rescue and Remote Operating Centres. 
10. Address safety considerations (using EMSA’s Risk Based Assessment Methodology) 
and upskilling of port and vessel operators. 
11. Assess the net carbon impact of autonomous vessels, taking into account the devices and 
data processing needed to operate them and potential emissions saved, and ensure no 
significant harm to biodiversity. If applicable, the calculation method to assess the net 
impact of digital solutions from the European Green Digital Coalition (EGDC) could be 
used. 
12. Projects should exceed outcomes of previous or on-going projects in relevant ship types. 
13. Model the economic viability of the developed solutions, considering initial investment, 
operational savings, maintenance costs, and potential financial incentives, to assess the 
economic feasibility while also facilitating decision -making in the design process. All 
while considering the societal aspects of future shortening workforce.  
Proposals are expected to explain the contribution of their objectives, results, IP management 
and exploitation strategy to the EU added value creation and strategic autonomy throughout 
the supply and value chain, including competitiveness of the EU waterborne industry, 
enhancement of the EU’s R&I capacity, technological know -how capabilities and human 
capital, and resilience of the EU industrial and manufacturing base. Proposals are encouraged 
to prioritise shipyards, equipment manufacturers and providers located and/or manufacturing 
in the EU and EEA.