HORIZON-CL5-2027-07-D3-11: Demonstration of hydropower technologies for 
efficient and forward-looking refurbishment of existing hydropower plants 
Call: ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 8.50 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 17.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -7 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 192. 
 
Expected Outcome: For a renewables -based electricity system sufficient flexible and also in 
the long-run fully sustainable hydropower capacity is pivotal. 
Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Enhancing the capacities of the hydropower fleet to contribute with variable renewables 
base load to a secure and stable electricity system, including by modernising grid 
integration and hydropower fleet control. 
• Increase technology leadership, competitiveness and technology export potential of 
European hydropower industry. 
• Address challenges of climate change adaptation for a forward -looking and stable 
operation of sustainable hydropower for the coming decades.   
Scope: Demonstration of hydropower technology solutions which allow for efficient and 
forward-looking refurbishment of existing hydropower plants. Provided solutions must be 
socioeconomically and environmentally sustainable (including biodiversity) and provide a 
respective assessment. Issues which can be addressed are for example: Innovative design of 
turbines (and also draft tubes, nozzles and distributors) and generators, including innovative 
improvements based on future load cycles and extending their intended life time; new models 
and simulation tools for harsher operational conditions; digitalisation and artificial 
intelligence to advance instrumentation and controls and flexibility and to develop innovative 
operational strategies towards reduced O&M costs; transient aspect linked to new operating 
patterns of hydro plants to cope with climate changes and renewable base load; new materials 
for increased efficiency and resistance of equipment and increased performance, life time and 
resilience of infrastructure including e.g. phasing out of PFAS and mineral oils; low -GHG 
balance concrete; automated maintenance of metal hydropower turbines to reduce cost; 
operator hazards and reduce LCoE related to OPEX; Improving water uses resilience via 
integrated operations and management; simulation and forecasting tools for integrated risk 
and mitigation analysis for climate change adaptation and in response to extreme weather 
 
events by taking fully into account biodiversity requirements by targeting good ecological 
status and e.g. fish migration; water flows and sediment dynamics not hampering flexible 
hydropower production, innovative techniques for enhancing the life time of concrete 
structures and the overtopping safety of embankment and rockfill structures.