HORIZON-CL5-2027-03-D5-15: Prospective evaluation of nuclear power potential for 
shipping (ZEWT Partnership) 
Call: MOBILITY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 2.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 2.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 260. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes:    
1. Drafting of a R&I roadmap towards deploying nuclear power in commercial shipping, 
including small modular reactors (SMRs) and other advanced nuclear technologies (e.g. 
complementing the latest European Industrial Alliance on SMRs technology 
roadmap 261 ), including identification of research gaps, infrastructures and future 
innovation needs 
2. Mapping of relevant regulatory regimes nationally, regionally and internationally for the 
use of nuclear-powered shipping, including recommendations on regulatory frameworks 
and international cooperation. 
3. Development of scenarios for the use of the technology, including potential damage 
scenarios. 
4. The implications for National Energy and Climate Plans and National Air Pollution 
Control Programmes as well as water pollution policies required by EU legislative 
framework. 
5. Assessment of total cost of ownership for the deployment of current and potential 
technologies. 
6. Development of safety, training and operational guidelines for nuclear-powered ships.   
 
Scope: Nuclear propulsion has the potential to reduce emissions of air pollutants and to 
decarbonize the shipping sector, producing zero GHG tank -to-wake emissions and low 
upstream well-to-tank emissions. A coordinated effort among various stakeholders including 
industry partners, research performing organisations, NGOs, the European Commission, the 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), and the International Maritime Organisation 
(IMO) should help evaluate such prospective potential. It should benefit from the latest 
Research and Innovation (R&I) results, technical, socio-economic and environment studies, or 
initiatives being capitalised at EU and international level, to ensure a comprehensive 
assessment. 
The main objectives are to assess the feasibility, safety, and environmental impact of using 
nuclear power for shipping to achieve zero -emission of GHG, air and water pollutants in 
maritime transport. Following a preliminary assessment and literature review, as well as 
detailed technical and economic studies regulatory and technical recommendations should be 
developed, along with a review of on -going pilot projects aimed at demonstrating the 
feasibility of nuclear-powered vessels. 
The project should help evaluate the technical, economic, regulatory, environmental and 
social aspects of deploying nuclear power in commercial shipping, including small modular 
reactors (SMRs) and other advanced nuclear technologies. 
Actions should address all the following aspects:   
1. Technical Feasibility: a) To assess the suitability of SMRs and other nuclear 
technologies for maritime use; b) To evaluate any integration challenges with existing 
and potential new ship designs, including modular designs.; c) To study the lifecycle of 
nuclear-powered vessels, including construction, operation, and decommissioning. 
2. Economic Viability: a) To conduct cost -benefit analyses comparing nuclear -powered 
shipping to conventional and renewable low and zero -carbon fuel options, taking into 
account the long -term availability of fuel and the cost of disposal of residues; b) To 
evaluate infrastructure requirements in the EU, such as port facilities for nuclear vessels; 
c) Mapping full costs for a nuclear propelled ship on a life cycle basis. 
3. Safety and Security: a) To develop safety protocols for nuclear -powered ships, including 
emergency response and accident mitigation; b) To address cybersecurity risks, external 
threats and proliferation concerns and safety in ports. c) Assessing long -term crew 
training requirements for nuclear operations, safety and security and their 
implementation in international training and certification regulations. 
4. Environmental Impact: a) To analyze the potential reduction of greenhouse gas 
emissions, air and water pollutants caused by mining, refining, use and disposal of spent 
nuclear fuel; b) To assess the impact of nuclear waste management, disposal as part of 
implementation of a circular economy approach; c) To assess the impact of nuclear -
powered ships on marine ecosystems addressing in particular water pollutions and by 
contaminants; d) To analyze possible damage scenarios with a view to liability issues 
and mitigation of damages. 
5. Regulatory and Legal Framework: a) To identify gaps in international maritime law and 
IAEA nuclear regulations; and b) To propose recommendations related to the 
International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) 262 and other relevant 
treaties 
6. The implications for National Energy and Climate Plans and National Air Pollution 
Control Programmes required by EU legislative framework. 
7. Additionally, a strategy for skills development should be presented, associating social 
partners and civil society where relevant.  
Proposals are expected to demonstrate how their objectives contribute to EU added value and 
long-term competitiveness in nuclear -powered vessel technologies. This includes enhancing 
the EU’s R&I capacity, safeguarding critical technological know -how, developing skilled 
human capital, and reinforcing the resilience of the EU’s industrial and manufacturing base in 
this strategic sector. 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on ‘Zero Emission 
Waterborne Transport’ (ZEWT). As such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected 
to report on results to the European Partnership ‘Zero Emission Waterborne Transport’ 
(ZEWT) in support of the monitoring of its KPIs.