HORIZON-CL5-2026-07-D1-05: Improving climate and weather models for Africa 
Call: CLIMATE 
Specific conditions 
 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 7.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 21.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Due to the scope of this topic, legal entities established in all African 
Union member states are exceptionally eligible for Union funding. 
At least 30% of the beneficiaries must be legal entities established in the 
African Union member states90. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Beneficiaries will be subject to the following additional obligations 
regarding open science practices: Open access to any new modules, 
models or tools developed from scratch or substantially improved with 
the use of EU funding under the action must be ensured through 
documentation, availability of model code and input data developed 
under the action. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 91. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Improved quality and performance of weather and climate models over Africa, tailored 
to the continent’s needs, enabling more effective adaptation actions and disaster risk 
 
response strategies, and informing the implementation of the international dimension of 
the EU Adaptation and Preparedness Union Strategies, the Sendai Framework for 
Disaster Risk Reduction, the Nairobi Declaration and the Team Europe Initiative on 
Adaptation and Resilience in Africa92; 
• Enhanced provision of weather predictions and climate projections that enable African 
communities to more effectively respond to the escalating impacts of climate change, 
contributing to the objectives of the AU -EU Partnership on Climate Change and 
Sustainable Energy93; 
• African climate research is bolstered, supporting the development of the next generation 
of climate scientists. There is reduced reliance on external expertise, increased 
representation of African science and scientists in international bodies such as the IPCC 
and UNFCCC, and enhanced African contribution to global climate initiatives such as 
CMIP, CORDEX and ISIMIP.  
Scope: Africa is among the regions most severely affected by climate change, mostly due to 
high vulnerability and low adaptive capacity. While significant advancements in global 
weather and climate science have transformed resilience efforts elsewhere, their benefits in 
Africa remain to be harnessed, to unlock the continent’s ability to address climate challenges 
more effectively. 
Actions should address critical knowledge gaps for improving weather and climate modelling 
for Africa in the context of changing climate, with focus on the understanding and 
representation of weather and climate dynamics in Africa at regional, interregional or 
continental scale. They should enhance models’ predictive skill and reduce uncertainties in 
key areas such as rainfall and extreme weather events. Actions should harness observational 
data to advance process -based understanding and model performance across various Earth 
System components (e.g. land, ocean, atmosphere). This includes improving data collection, 
assimilation and quality assurance practices, integration of local and rescued historical data to 
provide high -quality inputs for models. Actions are encouraged to leverage digital 
technologies, including AI/ML techniques, tools, and models as well as advances in high 
performance computing to achieve the topic’s goals. 
The research should be performed in close cooperation and co -creation between African and 
European teams in a way to ensure relevance, acceptance and co -ownership of solutions by 
African stakeholders. Actions are also expected to contribute to local capacity -building and 
knowledge exchange to support competence growth and equip African researchers with the 
data, tools and expertise necessary to sustain future progress. Strong partnerships should be 
established between relevant institutions in both regions such as universities, research bodies, 
 
National Meteorological and Hydrological Services (NMHSs) and African Regional Climate 
Centers (RCCs)94 to enable mutual learning and collaborations. 
Synergies and complementarity should be sought with other relevant EU -supported initiatives 
on climate modelling and capacity development in Africa such as Regional Centres of 
Excellence related to the green transition 95. Additionally, actions should facilitate access of 
African researchers to cutting -edge European research infrastructures including 
supercomputing assets and data repositories to strengthen institutional and regional expertise 
and capacity. 
All projects funded under this topic are strongly encouraged to collaborate and envisage 
clustering activities together and with other relevant projects in and outside of Horizon 
Europe.