HORIZON-CL5-2026-09-D4-02: Low disturbance prefabrication approaches for deep 
renovation of multi-storey buildings (Built4People Partnership) 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 7.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 28.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 223. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Measurable reduction in the costs of deep renovation compared to current best practices; 
• Measurable increase in resource and energy efficiency compared to current best 
practices; 
• Measurable reduction in the number of days when occupants are disturbed due to 
renovation works; 
• Measurable reduction of dust, noise, waste and pollutant and greenhouse emissions on 
the construction site compared to current best practices.   
Scope: Meeting Europe’s ambition for the renovation of the housing stock requires innovative 
approaches that improve buildings’ energy performance and occupants’ satisfaction, at a 
reduced cost while speeding up the renovation process and minimising impact on the 
construction site and disturbance for occupants. Renovation approaches should cover the 
whole workflow from design, off -site manufacturing and on -site installation to strategies for 
maintenance, operation and end of life. 
Proposals are expected to address all of the following: 
• Demonstrate cost -effective approaches (comprising design, planning and construction 
processes and techniques) for deep renovation to at least NZEB performance levels of 
multi-storey buildings (> 5-storeys); 
• Ensure that the approaches make use of prefabricated solutions that are adaptable and 
can be seamlessly integrated into a variety of existing building elements and features 
(e.g. various existing wall materials, presence of balconies and overhangs, existing 
piping in the way, etc.); 
• Ensure that the approaches minimise the disturbance for building owners, tenants and 
users, notably through a significant time reduction of on -site construction activities and 
of unavailability of the building and its main functionalities, and a minimal impact on 
occupancy comfort during the renovation;  
Demonstrate the proposed approaches tailored to three multi -storey buildings (> 5 -storeys), 
each in a different Member States or Associated Countries and covering different building 
categories (residential or non -residential). This topic implements the co -programmed 
 
European Partnership on ‘People -centric sustainable built environment’ (Built4People). As 
such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected to contribute to the objectives of 
Built4People, transfer knowledge to its network of innovation clusters 224 and report on results 
in support of the monitoring of the Built4People KPIs.