HORIZON-CL5-2026-06-Two-Stage-D5-10: Disruptive Technologies and Innovative 
Concepts for Energy Saving Onboard of long-distance ships (ZEWT Partnership) 
Call: MOBILITY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
5.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
 
project Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 15.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Applicants submitting a proposal for a blind evaluation (see General 
Annex F) must not disclose their organisation names, acronyms, logos 
nor names of personnel in the proposal abstract and Part B of their first-
stage application (see General Annex E). 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The first-stage proposals of this topic will be evaluated blindly. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 255. 
 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes:    
1. Development of novel and disruptive technologies and innovative concepts that 
demonstrate at least 25% energy savings for long distance shipping, compared to 2008 
levels. 
2. Established methodology for assessing the energy savings from the proposed solutions, 
considering the implementation of the IMO GHG strategy and of the FuelEU Maritime 
Regulation. 
3. Proven scalability and replicability of the developed technologies and concepts to 
various ship types, operational profiles and navigational routes.  
4. Assess the economic viability, environmental and climate impacts of the technologies 
and innovative concepts. 
5. Defined implications and impacts of the proposed solutions regarding safety and 
operational aspects, also addressing competences and skills issues for the adoption and 
operation of such technologies.  
6. Consider AI -based and digital twin features for optimisation and energy management 
aspects. Relevant improvements should not be considered as part of the at least 25% 
energy savings target.   
Scope: Energy consumption of long -distance shipping should be reduced significantly to 
achieve sustainable worldwide trade. To achieve a more sustainable and environmentally 
friendly shipping industry, it is essential to continue developing disruptive technologies, 
advanced materials, and innovative concepts that can significantly reduce energy consumption 
of long -distance shipping. The objective of this topic is to support solutions for propulsion 
and non -propulsion energy consumption that aim to achieve at least at least 25% energy 
savings in long distance shipping as compared to 2008 levels, through the development and 
integration of standalone solutions. These technologies include (but are not limited to) active 
or passive increased performance solutions, novel propulsion systems, augmented propulsion 
technologies capitalizing also on ship motions, hull performance enhancements and the use of 
advanced materials which can further enhance energy efficiency and reduce the 
environmental impact of vessels. Any fuel -related proposals should only consider renewable 
low and zero -carbon fuels. These technologies and concepts should be applicable to various 
types of ships, including ro-pax, container ships, bulk carriers, and tankers. 
Proposals are expected to address all the following aspects:    
1. Development and demonstration at TRL 4 -5 of novel, high -uncertainty but high -reward 
technologies that significantly reduce energy consumption in long distance shipping.  
2. Development of various ship concepts, conducting replication studies for different case 
scenarios and modelling the real overall energy savings of the solutions and concepts 
developed.  
3. Development of methodologies measuring the impact of the energy efficiency achieved 
on the GHG intensity and the impact on air pollution of the energy used for propulsion 
specifically for long distance shipping, with a focus on emission reductions, also 
facilitating the introduction of such technologies under the scope of LCA guidelines and 
FuelEU Maritime, and improving the EEDI, EEXI and CII performance where relevant. 
4. Consider links with digital twin and AI -based optimisation aspects for the considered 
technologies (e.g., adaptive and model -predictive control), including the necessary 
sensing systems, to expand the system’s future capacities.  
5. Model the economic viability of the developed technologies, considering initial 
investment, operational savings, maintenance costs, and potential financial incentives, to 
assess the economic feasibility while also facilitating decision -making in the design 
process. 
6. Assessment of the safety and environmental implications of the solutions, including 
technical and operational risks, possible impacts to ships, ports and other land 
infrastructure.  
7. Ensure appropriate sustainability of the action outputs by elaborating on a technology 
development roadmap and by exploring business cases.   
Proposals are expected to explain the contribution of their objectives, results, IP management 
and exploitation strategy to the EU added value creation and strategic autonomy throughout 
the supply and value chain, including competitiveness of the EU waterborne industry, 
enhancement of the EU’s R&I capacity, technological know -how capabilities and human 
capital, and resilience of the EU industrial and manufacturing base. Proposals are encouraged 
to include synergies with shipyards, equipment manufacturers and providers, including start -
ups and SMEs, located and/or manufacturing in the EU and EEA.  
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on ‘Zero Emission 
Waterborne Transport’ (ZEWT). As such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected 
to report on results to the European Partnership ‘Zero Emission Waterborne Transport’ 
(ZEWT) in support of the monitoring of its KPIs.