HORIZON-CL5-2026-07-D1-01: Next generation climate monitoring and related 
capabilities 
Call: CLIMATE 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 5.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 15.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced portfolio covering all the areas described in the 
scope section (A, B and C), grants will be awarded to applications not 
only in order of ranking but at least also to one proposal that is the 
highest ranked within each priority area, provided that the 
corresponding applications attain all thresholds.  
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 71. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Climate data are improved both spatially and temporally, physically more consistent and 
better exploited across a wide range of users, stakeholders and regions; 
• The EU climate data sovereignty is strengthened, with enhanced EU contribution to 
climate monitoring and climate change assessments; 
• Climate information distillation is facilitated by innovative methods to provide useful 
information to policy making in a more efficient way.  
Scope: Climate monitoring of Essential Climate Variables 72 at global and regional scales is 
crucial to assess the state of our climate, its variability and change, and to track progress 
towards the goals of the Paris Agreement and the corresponding EU climate objectives. 
Underlying elements, in particular climate data records, reanalyses and forcings, are 
fundamental to climate science and serve multiple applications across weather, climate, 
environmental and sectoral domains, generating societal benefits. In turn, methods to distil 
information from this wealth of data can help extract relevant knowledge and key messages 
for climate policymaking. 
Proposals are expected to address only one of the following priority areas, which should be 
clearly indicated: 
A. Next generation climate data records 
Actions should advance innovative methods to enhance, expand and update climate data 
records; exploit recently rescued and/or new data streams; develop innovative methods to 
improve the water-energy-carbon cycle physical and bio -geochemical consistency across data 
records; and improve their applicability for users. 
B. Next generation Earth system reanalyses 
Actions should undertake research to prepare for the next generation global and European 
high resolution climate reanalyses. Progress is expected in enhanced data assimilation 
methods, further coupling the Earth system components, expanding atmospheric composition 
reanalysis backward in time, piloting carbon -energy-water cycle reanalyses, exploring data -
driven methods for reanalyses and applying such improvements in subsequent applications 
and international initiatives. 
 
C. Next generation climate forcing and emission data sets 
Actions are expected to conduct research to ensure more updated and sustained production, 
and quality assurance procedures of climate forcings and emissions data sets in support of 
international climate change assessments and climate simulations, including harmonization 
between forcing and emission data sets (historical and scenarios). 
Additionally, all actions should promote the development and use of new, rescued or proxy 
data streams, and innovative digital tools and methods, including AI -based, to transform 
climate data into actionable knowledge. These efforts should align with, build upon, and 
support global intercomparison and coordination frameworks such as CMIP, promoting 
standardisation, accessibility and utility of climate information across climate science and 
service user communities, with due consideration of FAIR principles. 
Noting the current divestment of the US in climate and environmental related monitoring 
networks, which may severely impact climate research and services worldwide, proposers are 
requested to dedicate resources to the assessment and mitigation of such impacts towards 
increased resilience of climate monitoring at European and global scale. 
Research areas of particular interest include new data mining capabilities to facilitate the 
identification of events and areas of interest, anomalous climate behaviours, unexpected 
trends, etc. within those data sets. Equally welcome are methods to automate regular and 
consistent climate reporting along agreed climate indicators, to distil useful climate 
information (i.e. climate intelligence), and to derive knowledge tailored to relevant users (e.g. 
for sectoral applications and assessment such as biodiversity monitoring and ecosystem 
management), from expert users to policy makers and the general public. 
International cooperation in the context of IPCC, WCRP 73, GCOS74, and IAMC 75 is strongly 
encouraged, as well as close coordination and complementarity with Copernicus, Destination 
Earth, and other relevant stakeholders.