HORIZON-CL5-2026-03-D3-13: Industrial scale up and circularity pathway for IPV 
technologies (EUPI-PV Partnership) 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
10.50 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 31.50 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility conditions The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite-based earth observation, positioning, 
navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must 
make use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and 
services may additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6-7 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome : Integrated PV (IPV) technologies represent specific production 
challenges, notably linked to the greater diversity of IPV products in terms of format, shape, 
material and technical constraints. While IPV technologies represent a major opportunity for 
the European energy transition, unlocking a greater potential for solar PV, it is challenging to 
bring new products to the market due to the lack of availability of suitable infrastructure to 
demonstrate technically and economically innovative technologies at scale. In addition, as 
IPV components are not as standardised and present much greater technological, material and 
size variability than conventional modules, dedicated recycling and material recovery 
processes need to be demonstrated. 
Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected outcomes:    
1. Increase the potential for commercialisation of IPV technologies creating a competitive 
technological know-how for the European PV industrial base; 
2. Increase recyclability and minimise the environmental impact of IPV; 
3. Introduce new business models and open new markets in IPV manufacturing, reuse and 
recycling; 
4. Support the execution of the solar energy joint research and innovation agenda.   
Scope: Proposals are expected to demonstrate 
• Suitable IPV manufacturing, technically and economically innovative technologies at 
scale; 
• Flexible IPV production pilot lines to test the 100kWp+ scale (with linked demonstration 
sites); 
• Demonstration of recycling processes for various sizes, materials and technologies of 
IPV products (BIPV/IIPV, agriPV, VIPV, floating…).   
Whenever the expected exploitation of project results entails developing, creating, 
manufacturing and marketing a product or process, or in creating and providing a service, the 
plan for the exploitation and dissemination of results must include a strategy for such 
exploitation. Proposals will present a plan for the exploitation and dissemination of results 
which should include a strong business case and sound exploitation strategy. The exploitation 
plan should include preliminary plans for scalability, commercialisation, and deployment 
(feasibility study, business plan) indicating the possible funding sources to be potentially used 
(in particular the Innovation Fund). 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership for Innovation in 
Photovoltaics (EUPI -PV). As such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected to 
report on the results to the European Partnership for Innovation in Photovoltaics (EUPI -PV) 
in support of the monitoring of its KPIs.