HORIZON-CL5-2026-03-D3-18: Grid-forming capabilities for more resilient and RES -
based electricity grids 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
10.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 20.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility conditions The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, 
navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must 
make use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and 
services may additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6-7 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Improved preparedness of the electricity grids to support the EU's binding target for 
2030 of minimum 42.5% renewables in gross final energy consumption, with the 
aspiration to reach 45% by 2030 and full decarbonisation by 2050; 
• Increased resilience and flexibility of electricity grids, which are able to better manage 
high shares of variable renewable energy systems (RES); 
• Transmission system operators (TSO) and Distribution system operators (DSO) develop 
and use modern procedures and techniques for maintaining grid stability and secure 
operation; 
• Seamless integration of power electronics-interfaced devices (PEID) in modern grids.   
Scope: Projects are expected to address all the following items: 
• Develop new and improved knowledge and insights into the synthetic inertia, frequency 
control, very fast voltage support, and overall support to the system stability offered by 
grid-forming inverters (GFIs). Develop and/or update relevant models and simulation 
tools; 
• Develop and demonstrate innovative grid control and grid -forming solutions that 
leverage the capabilities of GFIs with the view to enable mass deployment of GFIs; 
• Address use cases for both transmission - and distribution -level grids, ranging from 
applications used in residential and commercial domains up to the use in large RES 
generators (PV or wind) and grid-scale battery storage systems. They could also consider 
solutions that include LVDC microgrids that are connected to the main AC grids; 
• Take a system -wise approach, including control strategies that can effectively 
encompass wider areas;  
• Develop interoperability between different solutions and products from different GFI 
manufacturers. Devise standardised approaches through the use of hardware in the loop 
and advanced simulation models for GFIs; 
• Leverage modern solutions, including digital twins and artificial intelligence. Use and/or 
develop, to the greatest extent possible, open -source software solutions and or software 
modules. 
• Develop a manual and propose best practices on this matter to be used by TSOs and 
DSOs. Propose sets of standardised technical requirements for GFIs, test models and 
procedures for verification of compliance (for the use of TSOs and DSOs) Identify 
remaining gaps and further needs for research and development. Suggest market 
conditions and/or opportunities that would incentivise the deployment at scale of GFIs.   
The demonstration, test and validation of the activities must be carried out in at least two 
pilots in different EU Member States or Associated Countries. The pilots are expected to 
address diverse solutions (including voltage levels and geographical landscapes). 
Projects are expected to include at least: one electricity TSO, two DSOs, one provider of 
technology that includes GFIs, one RES -based energy producer, and one university and/or 
research organisation.  
Additionally, collaboration is encouraged with: 
• one or more suppliers of GFIs, with the aim to cover the whole range of products 
intended to be connected to both transmission and distribution voltage levels; 
• at least one grid-scale battery storage system operator 
• at least one aggregator that manages distributed energy resources that include GFIs.   
This collaboration (minimum number of entities) is sought per project in total and does not 
necessarily apply per each pilot in particular. 
Selected projects are expected to contribute to the BRIDGE initiative 196  and actively 
participate in its activities. 
Proposals are encouraged to consider, where relevant, services offered by European research 
infrastructures197, as well as related projects offering access to research infrastructures in the 
electricity grid domain- particularly RISEnergy198. 
International cooperation is encouraged, especially with Mediterranean countries other than 
the EU and with Latin America and the Caribbean.