HORIZON-CL5-2027-07-D3-17: PV based electrification of the economy: Designing & 
optimising PV systems supporting industrial electrification and promoting participation 
in electricity markets (EUPI-PV Partnership) 
Call: ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 18.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 195. 
 
Expected Outcome: Large PV systems such as utility scale PV are evolving towards higher 
voltage architecture (>=3kV) with the objective to minimize losses and improve system 
efficiency at lower costs. The intention is to integrate also storage into such (hybrid) PV 
systems offering flexibility. It is consequently essential to build a blueprint for the 
implementation of high voltage large PV systems and the development of Direct Current (DC) 
networks around strategic end users for high voltage demand (industrial sites, servers, electric 
vehicle charging stations…). Understanding the factors that influence the performance and 
economics of these system architectures will help system planners evaluate the potential 
benefits of such hybrid resources that could support an increasing future industrial 
electrification. Another crucial challenge to address in ensuring the continued growth of new 
investments in solar PV, is the increasing occurrence of zero or negative prices in the 
electricity market, which dramatically hurt the profitability of operating solar PV assets. To 
tackle this challenge, PV participation to ancillary services is a way forward, which would 
reduce significantly system operating costs and PV curtailment and improve system reliability 
and PV profitability. The coupling/pooling with other generation assets or storage/demand 
assets is also to be considered. 
 
Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected outcomes as 
indicated for the proposed scope (high voltage DC PV systems or PV participation in 
electricity markets): 
Scope 1: High-voltage DC PV systems:    
1. Highly efficient PV systems, optimal utilisation of generated PV electricity, energy 
savings; 
2. Decreased levelised cost of electricity (LCOE) and affordable electricity for industrial 
users.   
Scope 2: PV participation in electricity markets:    
1. Increased social profitability of PV by participation to ancillary services; 
2. Energy efficient, cost competitive and flexible contribution of PV systems to the energy 
markets.   
All proposals are expected to support the execution of the solar energy joint research and 
innovation agenda.  
Scope: Proposals are expected to cover at least one of the following scopes: 
Scope 1: High-voltage DC PV systems: 
• Design higher voltage system architectures and evaluate the efficiency benefit; 
• Develop the blueprint for an AC (Alternating Current)/DC hybrid solution for managing 
end user loads, achieving high levels of efficiency; 
• Demonstrate a high voltage >3kV operating in DC grids for industrial installations 
hybrid system; 
• Investigate the impact of higher voltage on PV modules.   
Scope 2: PV participation in electricity markets: 
• Demonstrate integrated management of PV generators for dynamic and/or nodal pricing; 
• Pool PV with other consumption/production assets to participate in balancing 
mechanisms; assess the viability of these systems and demonstrate business models and 
financing schemes; 
• Demonstrate reliability, procurement driven risk mitigation and better system availability 
through digitalization.   
Whenever the expected exploitation of project results entails developing, creating, 
manufacturing and marketing a product or process, or in creating and providing a service, the 
plan for the exploitation and dissemination of results must include a strategy for such 
Climate,