HORIZON-CL5-2026-07-D1-04: Fighting disinformation and effectively communicating 
on climate change 
Call: CLIMATE 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
4.00 and 5.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 15.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 87. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Advanced knowledge and understanding on the dynamics of disinformation affecting 
climate policy and climate policy backlash from a communication perspective; 
• Tools and products are developed for public authorities, media and civil society to detect 
and combat the influence and spread of climate change-related disinformation at scale; 
• Tailored, innovative and effective communication techniques, tools and materials are 
developed, tested and disseminated, to better communicate with and engage citizens on 
climate change, climate action and climate policies; 
• Acceptance of climate action is increased, democratic processes and societal resilience 
are strengthened and sustained behavioural change is progressed, through higher trust in 
climate science and improved climate literacy, supporting the objectives of the 
Preparedness Union Strategy.  
Scope: Climate change science is well -established and increasingly relevant to daily life and 
societal welfare. However, effectively communicating both the science and the necessary 
climate actions remains a significant challenge. Particularly challenging is understanding and 
addressing the spread of misinformation, disinformation, and misinterpretation. There is also 
a crucial need for a strengthened public trust in science and in democracy, and for evidence -
based climate communication strategies that foster a sense of agency through empowering 
and positive narratives. Complex messages should be made accessible, relevant, and reliable 
to non-specialist audiences. 
Actions are expected to advance the understanding of the sources, channels, types, and 
influence of misinformation and disinformation on the public perception and assimilation of 
climate change -related information. The role of AI should also be investigated. Actions 
should identify, develop, and test strategies for the public and private sectors to detect, 
monitor and counteract mis/disinformation about climate and climate policy. Such tools and 
products should be made available for policymakers, companies and the general public to 
incentivise and equip society to critically assess climate change -related information online 
and offline. 
 
Research is expected to explore how to bridge the gap from climate knowledge and awareness 
to behavioural change, taking into consideration various factors that shape perceptions across 
different segments of the society. Actions should generate knowledge and develop innovative, 
engaging, tailored and multilingual tools, learning techniques, and narratives for impactful 
climate change communication frameworks at scale. Best -practice examples on European and 
international level should be retrieved. Climate scientists should be trained to effectively 
communicate with non -specialist audiences, including policymakers and other stakeholders. 
Research should investigate how to design and implement targeted communication campaigns 
that boost climate awareness and preparedness while preventing climate anxiety and 
counteract disinformation. These campaigns should promote fact -checking, clear and 
transparent knowledge on climate science and climate policymaking and foster the ability to 
interpret uncertainties. Citizen engagement, of youth and other vulnerable audiences in 
particular, is encouraged. 
Actions should develop communication strategies, tools and products tailored to real -world 
context and societal needs, to counter disinformation and enhance climate communication, 
leveraging visual and digital tools including AI, as appropriate. They should demonstrate 
clear pathways for uptake and scaling such as piloting with end -users and integration into 
existing platforms or frameworks. 
The primary focus of actions should be on Europe, with local and national foci as appropriate, 
while other regions may be used for framing information. International cooperation is 
encouraged, especially with the United States 88  and low - to middle -income countries 
automatically eligible for Horizon Europe funding 89. 
This research requires a multi -faceted, interdisciplinary approach drawing on insights from 
the natural sciences, social sciences and humanities (SSH) including behavioural sciences and 
gender, media studies, and communication theory. Participation of the private sector, in 
particular SME, is also strongly encouraged. 
All projects funded under this topic are strongly encouraged to collaborate and envisage 
clustering activities together and with other relevant projects in and outside of Horizon 
Europe. Collaboration with the EU Missions on Adaptation to Climate Change and on 
Climate neutral and Smart Cities is recommended when performing empirical work. 
Proposals should earmark the necessary resources for these purposes.