HORIZON-CL5-2027-01-D1-07: Advancing understanding, modelling and prediction of 
extreme events in a changing climate 
Call: CLIMATE 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 18.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or as 
an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 100. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Improved understanding of past and present extreme events in the context of climate 
change in Europe and globally, as well as the interaction between different hazards, their 
cumulative and/or cascading effects. 
• Enhanced seamless prediction and projection modelling and attribution capabilities for 
extreme events and their likelihood to support preparedness, response and resilience to 
climate change by EU and national and regional actors. The EU Union Preparedness 
Strategy, the EU Adaptation Strategy and the European Climate Adaptation Plan can act 
as a guidance in these efforts. 
• Up-to-date contributions towards latest climate science, risk assessments, adaptation 
strategies and policies and improved early warning systems for single and multi -hazard 
events.   
Scope: Climate change is intensifying the frequency and severity of extreme events. 
Understanding and predicting extreme events and the interaction between different types of 
hazards is critical for building resilience and safeguarding communities. 
Actions are expected to draw upon multiple lines of evidence from a hierarchy of models 
(including high resolution Earth system models and digital twins) and data of past and recent 
climate to further our understanding of processes, pre -conditioning and causality driving 
extreme events under climate change conditions, including anthropogenic factors and internal 
 
variability. Other innovative and efficient modelling and analysis methods, including AI -
based approaches, to better predict, emulate and reveal climate change related extreme and 
unprecedented high impact events, and to capture their likelihood are particularly welcome. 
Extreme events should be addressed in their broadest sense and types, encompassing isolated, 
compound or cascading events affecting lives, livelihoods, ecosystems, socio -economic 
sectors and infrastructures, from large-scale continental to local-scale phenomena. 
Actions should encompass quantitative intercomparisons, retrospective analyses, lessons 
learned and case studies of recent emblematic and diverse extreme events, and demonstrate 
the corresponding progress offered by the project in terms of improved understanding, 
comprehensive integration of multiple lines of evidence, and seamless (e.g. from short -term 
weather to sub -seasonal and multi -decadal scales) prediction and projection capabilities and 
skills. 
The work is expected to support the future European Climate Risk Assessment (EUCRA) 101, 
for example through storylines on extremes or other approaches. Project outcomes should 
demonstrate clear benefits for the prediction and attribution of extreme events and contribute 
to the activities of the EU Mission on Adaptation to Climate Change. 
Cooperation with global, EU, national and regional actors in the field of Disaster Risk 
Reduction and climate adaptation, including through integration into or interoperability with 
Copernicus, Destination Earth and other relevant initiatives is encouraged. In addition, 
international cooperation with low - to middle -income countries automatically eligible for 
Horizon Europe funding 102 is encouraged in support of climate resilience efforts, especially 
for capacity building. 
Selected proposals may consider the involvement of the European Commission's Joint 
Research Centre (JRC) whose contribution could consist of scientific advice and technical 
support in the context of the Copernicus Emergency Management Service and transfer of 
relevant research outcomes to operations. 
This topic is part of a coordination initiative between ESA and the European Commission on 
Earth System Science (ESSI) under the new Extreme -Events Flagship Cluster. Successful 
consortia will be asked to coordinate with projects to be selected under ESA's FutureEO 
programme to facilitate access to and uptake of satellite data products and related tools or 
methodologies. To this end, proposals should foresee sufficient means for effective 
coordination (i.e. cluster meetings, joint data management, potential joint actions).