HORIZON-CL5-2026-08-Two-Stage-D1-06: Closing knowledge gaps on Earth system 
science in support of global and regional assessments and climate policy 
Call: CLIMATE 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
5.00 and 9.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 45.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Applicants submitting a proposal for a blind evaluation (see General 
Annex F) must not disclose their organisation names, acronyms, logos 
nor names of personnel in the proposal abstract and Part B of their first-
stage application (see General Annex E). 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The first-stage proposals of this topic will be evaluated blindly. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 96. 
 
Expected Outcome : Project results are expected to contribute to some of the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Improved quality and reduced uncertainty of global and regional climate change 
projections; 
• Critical knowledge and data gaps in Earth system science as identified in the IPCC Sixth 
Assessment Report (AR6) and other authoritative sources, are addressed, ensuring that 
future climate assessments are grounded in the most comprehensive and up -to-date 
scientific evidence; 
• New climate science evidence is generated that is relevant for policy needs and for 
informing climate action.  
Scope: The global community’s ability to mitigate and adapt to climate change requires the 
continuous advancement of climate science and related disciplines. International climate 
policy is informed primarily by the assessments made by the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change (IPCC), which provides the most comprehensive and authoritative evaluation 
of the state of knowledge on climate science, including the Earth’s climate system and its 
expected changes under different scenarios. Despite the exponential increase of available data, 
other evidence and knowledge accumulated on these issues, there remain significant gaps in 
our understanding of key issues and processes. These may include factors such as insufficient 
or divergent evidence, low confidence findings or high uncertainties. Some of these gaps are 
identified in AR6 (specifically, in Working Group I contribution), “The Next Frontier for 
Climate Change Science” 97 and other relevant sources. Moreover, science has progressed 
since the closing of the evidence base used for AR6, raising new questions and avenues for 
inquiry. 
 
Proposals under this topic should seek to narrow the knowledge gaps in the realm of Earth 
system science (understood here as the scope of Working Group I of the IPCC), offering 
flexibility for applicants to define the specific research areas targeted. Proposals are expected 
to focus on issues clearly within the scope of Cluster 5, Destination 1, and not prominently 
addressed by other topics of the 2025 and 2026 -2027 Work Programmes, encouraging new 
scientific insights and approaches, and the involvement of researchers and entities new to 
Horizon Europe. Successful proposals are expected to enhance the scientific foundations and 
inform scientific assessments in a way that ensures they are comprehensive, accurate, and 
relevant for decision-makers. 
Proposals should clearly identify the knowledge gap(s) they seek to address, substantiate why 
recent and ongoing research efforts are unlikely to sufficiently address the issue, explain how 
the proposed action is expected to contribute to the advancement of Earth system science and 
identify policy relevance of the research proposed. 
International cooperation in the context of IPCC, WCRP 98  and GCOS 99  is strongly 
encouraged where relevant. 
Proposals indicating use of satellite remote sensing data and derived products are encouraged 
to collaborate with projects selected under ESA’s FutureEO programme and the EC -ESA 
Earth System Science Initiative (ESSI) to facilitate access to and uptake of satellite data 
products and related tools or methodologies. They should dedicate resources for collaborative 
actions.