HORIZON-CL5-2026-05-D5-01: Large -scale demonstration of Heavy -Duty Battery 
Electric Vehicles (HD BEV) towards long -haul logistics operations (2ZERO 
Partnership) 
Call: MOBILITY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
34.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 68.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite-based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 8 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Increased percentage of Heavy Duty Battery Electric Vehicles (HD -BEV) tested and 
used in operations by the logistics and transport operators involved in the 
demonstrations, compared to the current fleets. 
• Demonstrated efficient integration of HD -BEV in logistics fleets and operations along 
several European corridor segments, building further on the initial fleet developed in the 
large-scale demonstrations and across several types of transport operators. 
• Reinforced ecosystem connecting involved parties as fleet operators, charge providers, 
road authorities at local, regional, national and European levels – also reinforcing the 
industrial HD-BEV value chain in the EU.   
Scope: The implementation of zero emission vehicles for long -distance heavy -duty freight 
transport is of key importance to meet the European targets reducing greenhouse gas and air 
pollutants emissions. To further accelerate HD -BEV integration in logistic fleets and 
operations it is essential to identify and address the remaining barriers and challenges of their 
deployment. These barriers can be related to e.g. limitations in vehicle technology, digital 
tools, knowledge and user awareness, stakeholder engagement, energy and power availability, 
charging infrastructure needs such as depot charging and Megawatt Charging System (MCS), 
permit processes and connection to the grid and services. The challenges for logistics 
companies’ (also smaller operators) implementing zero emission transport solutions need to 
be addressed. 
Proposed actions are expected to address all of the following aspects: 
• Perform large-scale demonstrations of HD BEV equipped with MCS reaching up to a 
hundred market-ready vehicles and new generation vehicles in logistics fleets operations, 
involving several transport operators also engaging SMEs and microenterprises, 
focussing on long -haul operation (average ≥600km operations) during extended 
durations of over twelve months. The demonstrations must cover at least four European 
corridors’ segments in at least four Member States (MS) and/or Associated Countries 
(AC), and involved HD BEV should where possible be also equipped with MCS 
connector. 
• Identify and address the barriers and challenges to accelerate the deployment of fleets of 
HD-BEV in long-distance logistics operations in Europe, considering also the impact of 
battery degradation and the weather conditions in all seasons. 
• Develop and integrate in the demonstrations the use of digital tools with use of AI, 
access to data sets, operational and governance logistics models including charging 
opportunities and models to facilitate increasing numbers of HD -BEVs in logistics 
operations 
• Ensure synergies with the existing publicly accessible charging infrastructure available 
or funded under the CEF and/or other national/regional funding schemes and assess 
charging methods and business models for long -haul operations such as depot, 
destination, truck-stops, overnight etc., using different charging power considering cost 
and time optimisation. Only depot charging (mono and/or multi -operator) infrastructure 
can be (partially) funded in demonstration projects, including related innovative business 
models associated such as smart, bidirectional V2X solutions and possible second life of 
batteries. 
• Develop a competition -compliant ecosystem for sharing data for HD -BEV fleet 
management in so-called data labs including data pooling, which can include publication 
of open and FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Re -usable) data, and which 
could build on the common European mobility data space, also supporting the 
dissemination best practices, learnings and capacity building mechanisms as levers for 
HD-BEV acceleration. Using the shared data, new services and tools can be developed, 
including AI-based tools, agents and model frameworks for fleet management, both for 
on-board and remote monitoring. 
• Define and test use cases for the use of HD -BEV fleets in long -distance logistics 
operations for cross-border flows, operational strategies to shift freight transport demand 
to zero-emission solutions, and collaborative business model(s). 
• Establish synergies and leverage with previous and ongoing projects related to HD -BEV 
and charging systems and with related forums, platforms and programmes, such as with 
the European Clean Corridors Initiative, as part of the Automotive Action Plan.237 
• Map and assess how policies and relevant legislation (including incentives) can support 
an affordable transition to HD -BEV. Identify and address, by providing 
recommendations, remaining legal and regulatory barriers encountered in the 
demonstrations.  
An analysis of the potential economic, social and environmental benefits (notably greenhouse 
gas and air pollutants emissions reduction) must be included in the demonstrations. 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on ‘Towards zero emission 
road transport’ (2ZERO). As such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected to report 
on the results to the European Partnership ‘Towards zero emission road transport’ (2ZERO) in 
support of the monitoring of its KPIs.