HORIZON-CL5-2027-03-D5-06: Fire prevention and mitigation for EVs in confined 
areas (2ZERO Partnership) 
Call: MOBILITY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 8.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 8.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 248. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Standardised fire risk assessment for EVs’249 fire hazards in constrained spaces and areas 
such as underground/ built -in parking lots, garages, ferryboats and depots with and 
without charging facilities and during mono- or bidirectional charging. 
• Innovative on -board and/or off -board affordable fire -detection, suppression, and 
containment measures and techniques. 
• Standardised fire protocols and open evaluation frameworks. 
• Enhanced public perception of fire safety across all EV categories.  
Scope: The overall fire safety risks associated with Electric Vehicles (EVs) are substantially 
lower compared to those of Internal Combustion Engine (ICE) vehicles. However, public 
concerns and perceptions about EV fire safety may still persist. This necessitates a thorough 
examination and addressing of potential causes of EV fire to alleviate any remaining worries. 
This necessitates a thorough examination and addressing of potential causes of EV fire to 
alleviate any remaining worries.. 
 
Proposed actions are expected to address all of the following aspects: 
• Development of the most comprehensive database about fire accidents involving all EV 
categories at the European level. 
• Mitigation measures and solutions in case of thermal runaway of batteries, if not 
prevented in the first place, by appropriate design or by active measures to effectively 
avoid open fire and its possible progression. 
• A clear recognition of EV risks by improved on -board diagnosis and real -time 
monitoring, leading to early warning and to appropriate countermeasures. 
• Development of innovative and affordable fire detection, prevention and optionally 
suppression solutions for constrained spaces and areas such as underground/ built -in 
parking lots, garages, ferryboats and depots with and without charging facilities and 
during mono - or bidirectional charging. This can include e.g. measures for thermal 
runaway, fire-resistant systems/materials, easy and safe access to the battery for removal 
from the vehicle. 
• Development of firefighting protocols to deal with EVs on fire in narrow situations, 
essential for quick and effective intervention, including integration with existing safety 
standards (e.g., ISO, NFPA) to ensure smooth adoption and compatibility. 
• Social awareness for a transparent, informed public perception of the safety level of all 
EV categories, also with the development of a European based platform for 
dissemination and information with direct involvement of main stakeholders.   
This topic requires the effective contribution of Social Sciences and Humanities (SSH) 
disciplines and the involvement of SSH experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of 
relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce meaningful and significant effects enhancing the 
societal impact of the related research activities. 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on ‘Towards zero emission 
road transport’ (2ZERO). As such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected to report 
on the results to the European Partnership ‘Towards zero emission road transport’ (2ZERO) in 
support of the monitoring of its KPIs. 
The topic is open to international collaboration, and the funded project are expected to seek 
synergies with the Sustainable Transport Forum250 and with the EV TCP Task 49251. 
 
