HORIZON-CL5-2026-03-D2-02: Development of direct recycling processes (BATT4EU 
Partnership) 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.70 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 14.20 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or as 
an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 5 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 130. 
 
Expected Outcome: Proposals are expected to contribute to all following points: 
• Significantly improved recycling efficiency for various battery chemistries, including 
those with low intrinsic metal values (e.g., LFP, LMFP, sodium-ion). 
• Reduced energy consumption of recycling processes compared to conventional recycling 
methods 
• Substantial decreases in Europe's dependency on raw material imports 
• Demonstrated economic viability and competitive cost structures for direct recycling 
technologies, enhancing circular economy practices in European battery cell 
manufacturing. 
• Scalable and automated recycling processes suitable for handling high volumes of 
gigafactory production scrap, directly reintegrating recycled materials into battery 
manufacturing processes.   
Scope: Proposals under this topic are expected to focus explicitly on the development, 
validation, and upscaling of direct recycling technologies targeting next -generation and low -
value battery chemistries (notably LFP, LMFP, and sodium -ion), as well as efficiently 
managing gigafactory production scrap. 
Projects are expected to address all the following points: 
• Direct recycling processes, validated at relevant environment 131  and capable of 
selectively recovering high -purity active materials from battery electrodes, minimizing 
processing steps, and preserving material functionality. 
• Specific optimization of recycling routes for economically challenging battery 
chemistries, achieving recovery efficiencies beyond the state-of-the-art 
• Innovative approaches for process automation, including intelligent sorting and robotic 
handling systems, tailored for gigafactory scrap streams, with demonstrated potential to 
seamlessly integrate into industrial-scale manufacturing facilities. 
 
• Formulation of practical design recommendations based on project findings, to facilitate 
and optimize direct recycling processes through improved cell design. 
• Robust techno -economic analyses demonstrating clear competitive advantages over 
traditional recycling pathways, complemented by comprehensive life -cycle assessments 
(LCA) highlighting sustainability benefits in terms of energy savings, CO 2 emission 
reduction, biodiversity and ecosystems impact, and overall resource efficiency.   
The Commission initiative for Safe and Sustainable by Design132 (SSbD) sets a framework for 
assessing the safety and sustainability of chemicals and materials which should be considered 
as a reference for project proposals. 
Proposals could consider the involvement of the European Commission's Joint Research 
Centre (JRC)133 whose contribution could consist of providing added value regarding various 
aspects of battery circularity and sustainability. For further information on the JRC’s possible 
contribution to the projects, please, search for additional publicly available information on the 
JRC’s website134 (EU Science Hub) on the NCP portal, or request specific information from 
the JRC (JRC-NCP-Network@ec.europa.eu) 
JRC will assure that all the other applicants receive the same information on the JRC’s 
possible contribution to the project (e.g., via the topic -specific FAQs under the Funding and 
Tenders Portal). 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on Batteries (Batt4EU). As 
such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected to report on the results to the 
European Partnership on Batteries (Batt4EU) in support of the monitoring of its KPIs.