HORIZON-CL5-2027-01-D1-11: Africa-EU CO-FUND action on climate 
Call: CLIMATE 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
15.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 15.00 million. 
Type of Action Programme Co-fund Action 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Due to the scope of this topic, legal entities established in all African 
Union member states are exceptionally eligible for Union funding. 
At least 30% of the beneficiaries must be legal entities established in the 
African Union member states110. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: At least 30% of the 
beneficiaries must be legal entities established in the Africa Union 
member states111. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The funding rate is up to 50% of the eligible costs. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP) in 
the form of grants. 
Financial support provided by the participants to third parties is one of 
the primary activities of the action in order to be able to achieve its 
objectives. Given the type of action and its level of ambition, the 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 500 000. 
 
This is justified by the research -intensive nature of the action because 
cascading grants linked to FSTP will support concrete R&I projects 
aimed at boosting climate preparedness in the African Union. However, 
if the objectives of the action would otherwise be impossible or overly 
difficult (and duly justified in the proposal) the maximum amount may 
be higher. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• A long-term collaboration on climate change research between the EU and the African 
Union is established through development and implementation of the Climate Action 
pillar of the EU -AU Research and Innovation Partnership on Climate Change and 
Sustainable Energy (CCSE),112 in co-design between African and European partners; 
• Reduced fragmentation by aligning the EU, national and multilateral R&I efforts with 
increased leverage and impact of funding; 
• African scientific, policy and practice communities have knowledge and tools to better 
understand, withstand and adapt to the accelerating effects of climate change, fostering 
science-based implementation of the Paris Agreement, the Sendai Framework for 
Disaster Risk Reduction, the Nairobi Declaration on Climate Change, the international 
dimensions of the EU Adaptation and Preparedness Union Strategy, the Global Gateway 
and the Team Europe Initiative on Adaptation and Resilience in Africa113; 
• African science is better accounted for and African scientists are better represented in 
international fora such as IPCC and UNFCCC.  
Scope: The European Commission Political Guidelines 2024 -2029114 call for new impetus in 
EU partnership with Africa to jointly address Africa’s concerns which include increasing 
impacts of climate change. This requires stepping up research and innovation cooperation 
between Europe and Africa in this crucial domain for securing Africa’s prosperity and 
resilience, which also aligns with Europe’s interests. With disproportionate burden from 
climate change risks, high vulnerability and low adaptive capacity, Africa faces unique 
challenges that require tailored, context-specific solutions. 
The action should establish joint collaborative activities between the EU and the AU, their 
respective Member States and other like -minded countries implementing the Climate Action 
Pillar of the CCSE Partnership. For framing its activities, the action should use the CCSE 
 
Roadmap115 and the priorities identified by the Coordination and Support Action funded from 
the call “HORIZON -CL5-2025-03-D1-07: Implementing the climate action pillar of the EU -
African Union Partnership on Climate Change and Sustainable Energy”. It should also 
consider the latest scientific and policy developments for adjusting the course of its activities. 
The action should address a well-balanced variety of climate issues under the Climate pillar of 
the CCSE Partnership, with particular emphasis on climate risk reduction and resilience. It 
should advance availability of climate -related data, data sharing and related information 
platforms, enhance climate services, and promote an integrated approach to knowledge. This 
should include awareness raising – in particular for the most vulnerable sectors and parts of 
the population – while leveraging the opportunities offered by the digital revolution to 
improve accessibility and impact. Co -design, co-development, and demonstration with end -
users should be an integral part of the activities to increase uptake of the outcomes. 
The action should organise joint calls and allow sufficient time for the implementation of the 
co-funded projects. The estimated duration of the action in order to achieve the establishment 
of the long term, sustainable collaboration is 5-6 years.  
As a horizontal requirement, the action should promote collaborations between government, 
research and academia, private sector, and civil society, including for the sake of valorisation 
of results from the funded and other relevant activities. It should also prioritise capacity 
building among African scientists, practitioners and other stakeholders, including 
development of skills and researcher exchange. 
Proposals should specifically consider elements within the FSTP scheme to ensure 
geographical balance and inclusiveness of a broad range of EU Member States, Horizon 
Europe Associated Countries, but especially widest possible representation of different 
African Union member states. 
Beyond implementing transnational calls, the action should also design and carry out an 
ambitious programme of coordination and clustering activities to seek synergies, align efforts, 
exchange results, and organise joint activities with other relevant Horizon Europe, and other 
EU, national and multilateral initiatives 116. It should provide support to the operation of the 
CCSE partnership and promoting its activities on international stage to increase the visibility 
of EU science diplomacy actions in Africa for climate-resilient development. 
It is recommended that the action draws on the experience and lessons learnt from the 
implementation of the energy pillar of the CCSE Partnership117. 
 
