HORIZON-CL5-2026-11-D3-14: Improved system design for innovative PV applications 
(EUPI-PV Partnership) 
Call: ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 7.50 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 30.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 7 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced portfolio, grants will be awarded to proposals not 
only in order of ranking but at least also to two proposals that are the 
highest ranked within the area of agriPV and at least also to two 
proposals that are the highest ranked within the area of 
offshore/nearshore PV, provided that proposals attain all thresholds. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 194. 
 
Expected Outcome: Agrivoltaics or the co -location of agricultural activity and PV electricity 
production is a novel form of PV deployment which could provide farmers with diversified 
revenue sources and ecological benefits, while reducing land use competition, siting 
restrictions or adverse impacts on biodiversity and agricultural production. Optimizing system 
designs and business practices will help to enable simultaneous land use creating synergy for 
both agriculture and electricity production; this can benefit farmers, lower PV costs and 
enable the European Union to reach the goals of the EU solar energy strategy. 
Similarly, offshore/nearshore PV systems represent a tremendous deployment potential in 
Europe and globally, due to their advantages in conserving land resources and optimizing 
 
light utilization. However, prevailing technical challenges limit deployment in most sea 
conditions usually found in Europe. 
Project results are therefore expected to contribute to some of the following expected 
outcomes, depending on the proposed system (agriPV or offshore/nearshore PV):    
1. Harvesting of crops and photovoltaic electricity, providing sustainable solutions for 
energy production/use/efficiency, soil and biodiversity protection and water 
conservation. 
2. Reinforce the European PV value chain, introduce new business models and open new 
markets for novel, bankable agri or offshore/nearshore PV systems. 
3. Minimise the impact of PV on landscape/sea and environment exploiting its modularity 
and synergies of use. Promote offshore wind and PV co-location and system integration. 
4. Significant improvement of designs that reduce both CAPEX and OPEX, maximize 
energy output and thus reduce LCoE. 
5. Promote integrated and multi -dimensional policy design to overcome socio -technical 
challenges for agri and offshore/nearshore PV deployment.   
Scope: Proposals must address only one of the two areas (agriPV or offshore/nearshore PV). 
They are expected to demonstrate: 
• A comprehensive (system) modelling for an accurate and reliable energy yield 
assessment with comparable methodologies for biodiversity, plant -yield and quality in 
the case of agriPV, as well as power generation. 
• Advanced system components and system concepts/architectures of adequate scale that 
minimise impact on land/sea/environment while maximizing energy output/optimising 
connection to the grid. 
• Resilience and adaptation of the systems to climate change impacts (extreme events, or 
in the case of agriPV, changing agricultural practices and/or crops choices, etc.). 
• Standardisation for module and structure design for these applications. 
• Permitting process definition. 
• System demonstrators of adequate scale (min 5 MW altogether) at different EU 
climate/sea zones.  
Achieving societal acceptance and sustainability in agriPV development requires clarity in 
permitting procedures, promoting energy justice principles, mitigating agronomic risks, and 
balancing economic development with environmental conservation (notably biodiversity). 
These dimensions need to be addressed holistically with the involvement of policymakers, 
industry stakeholders, and local communities working towards a just and equitable 
deployment of agriPV. In the case of offshore/nearshore PV, aesthetic a ppreciation, as well as 
possible conflicts of interest related to water areas (with e.g., commercial shipping, fishing, 
sand extraction, military use, and recreational sailing) or colocation should be looked at. 
Whenever the expected exploitation of project results entails developing, creating, 
manufacturing and marketing a product or process, or creating and providing a service, the 
plan for the exploitation and dissemination of results must include a strategy for such 
exploitation as well as a strong business case and sound exploitation strategy. The 
exploitation plan should include preliminary plans for scalability, commercialisation, and 
deployment (feasibility study, business plan) indicating the possible funding sources to be 
potentially used (in particular the Innovation Fund). 
This topic requires the effective contribution of SSH disciplines and the involvement of SSH 
experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce 
meaningful and significant effects enhancing the societal impact of the related research 
activities. 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership for Innovation in 
Photovoltaics (EUPI -PV). As such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected to 
report on the results to the European Partnership for Innovation in Photovoltaics (EUPI -PV) 
in support of the monitoring of its KPIs.