HORIZON-CL5-2027-03-D5-03: Data-driven circular economy for e-mobility ecosystem 
(2ZERO Partnership) 
Call: MOBILITY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
5.00 and 7.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 24.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -7 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced portfolio covering different sectors, grants will be 
awarded to proposals not only in order of ranking but at least also to the 
two highest -ranked proposal for each area A) Circular economy for 
Electric Vehicle (EV) powertrains and infrastructure; and B) Data -
driven life -cycle management of Electric Vehicle (EV), provided that 
the proposals attain all thresholds. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 242. 
 
Expected Outcome: Expected outcomes area A) Circular economy for Electric Vehicle (EV) 
powertrains and infrastructure: 
Project results are expected to contribute to all the following outcomes: 
• Minimized cradle to grave/cradle environmental impact of EV drivetrains (excluding 
batteries at cell level) and Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure (EVCI), especially 
electro-mechanical components and power-electronics, via design strategies for extended 
lifetime and reduced usage of CRM, and other materials, particularly those that may 
hamper high quality recycling (e.g. harmful substances), while ensuring high 
performance and market acceptability. 
• Improved repair, recovery, refurbish and re -use of end -of-first-life drivetrain 
components and EVCI through accurate and standardised assessment of the health and 
 
Remaining Useful Life (RUL), which should inform better design strategies and 
potential business models.  
Expected outcomes Area B) Data-driven life-cycle management of Electric Vehicle (EV):  
• Digital-twin based circularity product passport on vehicle level, which is interoperable / 
compatible with the upcoming battery passport and other relevant product passports 
foreseen in the Eco-design for Sustainable Products Regulation (ESPR).243 
• The ability to track & trace linked to representative EV components (e.g. power 
electronic converters, rotors, stators of electric motors, thermal management of battery 
system) by enabling advanced data collection, and the definition of minimum data 
needed for track & trace use in End of Life (EoL) strategies and feedback to design 
processes. 
• Proven concept and business case for the management of data driven product lifecycle 
across value chains and supply chains along the entire life cycle.  
Scope: The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 7 million for Area A and 5 million for 
Area B. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a proposal requesting 
different amounts. 
Scope area A) Circular economy for Electric Vehicle (EV) powertrains and infrastructure: 
Improving the circularity of EVs drivetrain components (such as power electronic converters, 
rotors, stators of electric motors, gear assemblies and battery components excluding battery 
cells) and respective charging infrastructure is crucial for resource efficiency, sustainability, 
and compliance with evolving European regulations. Through durable design, predictive 
maintenance, refurbishment, etc, it is possible to extend the lifespan of critical components 
reducing material demand and waste, without jeopardising on the needed performance. 
Advanced monitoring systems can predict failures, enabling proactive repairs, and to inform 
improved future design strategies, and potential second life applications. Automated processes 
coupled with design for dismantling can facilitate efficient component recovery, reducing 
labour costs and improving material separation for high-value recycling. 
The projects are expected to build on the results of projects funded under HORIZON-CL5-
2021-D5-01-04, HORIZON-CL5-2022-D5-01-09 and HORIZON-CL5-2025-04-D5-04, as 
well as to consider the methodologies proposed. They are expected to target at least the same 
technical performance levels for the electric motor as HORIZON -CL5-2022-D5-01-09 under 
real-life working conditions, while optimising the design for circularity. 
Proposals are expected to address all the following research activities: 
• Component health monitoring for individual components on their RUL (first and 
subsequent) including assessment of preferred circularity strategy and expected impact 
on EV affordability. This includes considering the impact of wear patterns, material 
 
fatigue, and thermal stress to optimise circularity strategies and extend the lifespan of 
components. 
• Develop novel design concepts and processes to optimise material usage and extend 
components’ lifetime such as design for (automated) dismantling, in particular to reduce 
dependency on critical raw materials or enable use of alternatives.  
• Promote broader Circular Economy (CE) adoption and increase the potential of reuse, 
repair and refurbishment by respective design criteria, means of standardisation 
(assessment and relevant interfaces), usage of RUL monitoring and better understanding 
of market potential.  
• Ensure economic and environmental sustainability in the analysis of drivetrain 
performance and charging infrastructure (e.g. efficiency, package, user driving 
experience, CRM use, CE).   
Scope area B) Data-driven life-cycle management of Electric Vehicle (EV): 
Vehicle specific data is crucial for advancing circularity through the 9R -strategies in EVs 
across their lifecycle. However, this data is often not available nor accessible after vehicle 
production, or not measured in the use phase. Digital passports and track and trace models can 
improve accessibility to data, enabling predictive maintenance, lifetime extension, and 
optimised recycling. Harmonised data -sharing policies are essential to ensure interoperability 
across value chains while maintaining data security and GDPR compliance. Data governance 
frameworks must regulate ownership, access, and consent to protect privacy and ensure 
responsible use. The common European data spaces initiative, notably the common European 
Green Deal data space, and the Data4Energy expert group 244 offer a foundation for secure, 
standardised architectures, ensuring trust and controlled data sharing. Furthermore, efficiency 
in data collection and storage is also critical. By integrating advanced data strategies, EV 
manufacturers can unlock new business opportunities and improve efficiency, while 
complying with regulations. 
Proposals are expected to address all the following research activities: 
• Development and real-life demonstration of concepts for track & trace for representative 
EV components (e.g. as power electronic converters, rotors, stators of electric motors, or 
thermal management of the battery system) ensuring access to, at least, the minimum 
needed data needed ensuring economic viable upscale and especially agreement on how 
this data can be accessed to enable/improve life -cycle management. The costs and 
benefits of tracing these data points should also be considered. Particular efforts should 
be made to ensure that the data and data management tools produced in the context of 
this topic are FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Re-usable). 
 
• Development and real -life demonstration of concepts for measuring real -world 
operational loads (mechanical, electrical, thermal) experienced by the representative EV 
components complemented by operational and environmental usage of EV that are key 
for life-cycle management and assessment (LCA). 
• Develop and demonstrate in real -life conditions API -based approach to data 
management of use phase and EoL and open interfaces that enable new business models, 
allow to better quantify circularity improvements, while allowing its sharing across value 
chains and supply chains, in a secure and privacy-compliant way. 
• Concepts and solutions for product passports based on the use of digital twins (e.g. 
identification of relevant data points, stakeholders, in connection with existing 
platforms/passports, such as the battery passport, and platforms e.g. IDIS, IMDS, and 
Catena-X245) while also considering LCA aspects.   
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on ‘Towards zero emission 
road transport’ (2ZERO). As such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected to report 
on the results to the European Partnership ‘Towards zero emission road transport’ (2ZERO) in 
support of the monitoring of its KPIs. The topic is open to both to Light Duty and Heavy -
Duty electric vehicles.