HORIZON-CL5-2026-09-D2-04: Coordinated topic with India on recycling of EV 
batteries 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 9.40 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 9.40 million. 
 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: The project must 
include at least one work package for coordinated activities with the 
linked project awarded by the Ministry of Heavy Industry of the 
Government of India (MHI). Participation of legal entities established in 
India, which is a third country under Horizon Europe, is only possible as 
associated partners. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 7 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Grants awarded under this topic will be linked to the coordinated project 
funded by the Ministry of Heavy Industries (MHI), Government of 
India. 
 
Expected Outcome: Battery recycling is of strategic importance for both Europe and India, 
not only to keep raw materials in the respective territories but also to reduce the 
environmental impact of the recycling process. R&I in this area has been identified as a 
priority by the EU -India Trade and Technology Council’s Working Group on Green and 
Clean Energy Technology to reinforce bilateral cooperation. 
Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Battery recyclers based in the EU and India benefit from of the improved sustainability, 
safety, and affordability of innovative recycling processes. 
• Stakeholders on battery recycling based in the EU and India benefit from each other’s 
experience on recycling logistics, including the informal processes and supply chain 
constraints. 
• The cooperation between EU and India key researchers, institutions and industries which 
are active in battery recycling is supported and strengthened.   
Scope: Projects are expected to build a jointly operated recycling pilot line on Indian soil 
demonstrating innovative recycling processes for lithium -ion batteries going beyond the 
current state of the art in terms of recycling efficiency (in particular of Li), environmental 
impact, cost, and compatibility with different types of batteries (including those currently on 
the market and to be anticipated in the coming years). The pilot line must be able to process 
black mass including mixed chemistries with Li as end product, with a purity level suitable 
for Cathode Active Material (CAM). Recovery of graphite or silicon/graphite in various 
compositions should also be addressed. Adequate benchmarking figures must be provided to 
show progress beyond the state of the art. 
Projects are also expected to demonstrate effective use of technologies for logistics, sorting, 
collection and discharging of end -of-life batteries. This should involve the informal sector 
(i.e. end users, collection points, sales channels) and include the following two areas: 
• Development of innovative and digitalised waste collection systems towards zero -risk to 
improve quantity, quality, safety of the stored End of Life batteries 
• Safe, fast, cost -efficient ways for large -scale discharging/deactivation End of Life 
batteries (both damaged and scraps), anticipating the development for new chemistries.  
Projects are furthermore expected to assess the environmental impact of the piloted 
innovations in the recycling processes through Life Cycle Analysis. 
Projects to be aligned with the missions, policies and priorities in the area of battery recycling, 
in both the regions (India and the EU). On the Indian side, alignment with relevant regulatory 
and strategic frameworks is expected, such as the Battery Waste Management Rules (2022) 
and the National Programme on Advanced Chemistry Cell (ACC) Battery Storage. EU 
projects are expected to build upon the activities of past and ongoing recycling -related 
projects under the BATT4EU partnership, as well as progress being made on the 
implementation of the Battery Passport. Projects are furthermore expected to be in line with 
the Batteries Regulation 138 (in particular with sections referring to recycling efficiency) and 
the Safe and Sustainable by Design guidelines139. 
The exploitation of results, including IPR, should be appropriately addressed in the proposal. 
Joint work should benefit from the Indian and European experience in battery recycling. 
Aligned projects should have the same start date, the same duration, same targets, and must 
show clearly how the coordination among them will bring added scientific value. To ensure a 
project implementation that reflects a genuine EU -Indian cooperation, aligned projects should 
involve properly coordinated research activities between EU and India in the jointly 
developed research plan of the two coordinated projects. Independent projects, which are not 
aligned, will be considered ineligible. Proposals will include detailed explanations about tasks 
 
and effort of the coordinated proposal as a whole and cross -references to the other part of the 
proposal. 
The coordinated call aims at exploiting synergies between India and Europe in terms of 
scientific expertise and resources in topics related to battery recycling by implementing 
coordinated projects. Potential areas for collaboration (i.e. the coordinated part of the call) 
could include (but are not limited to) demonstration of more flexible and adaptable recycling 
processes capable of treating mixed battery chemistries; innovative & digitalised waste 
collection systems; advanced sorting systems; active monitoring systems for high level of 
safety; safe, fast and cost -efficient discharging/deactivation (gen4 included); prediction for 
second-life use of batteries, diagnostics including State of Health. 
The topic is within the scope of the EU -India Strategic Partnership and the EU -India Trade 
and Technology Council in relation to battery recycling technologies. For the purposes of this 
topic, the Ministry of Heavy Industries (MHI), Government of India has made the required 
funding available for the coordinated projects of the Indian side. A balanced effort and 
matched budget between Europe and India regarding the two coordinated calls are expected.