HORIZON-CL5-2027-06-D6-05: European CCAM knowledge hub and tools for safe 
and scalable deployment (CCAM Partnership) 
Call: MOBILITY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 4.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 296. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes: 
 
• Extended EU -wide Knowledge Base with tools supporting the safe and practical 
deployment of CCAM in Europe, identifying business needs and trends, including 
exploitation and maintenance plans to ensure the long -term availability and usage of the 
Knowledge Base.  
• Enhanced exchanges and cooperation among CCAM stakeholders (in particular public 
authorities, citizens and user groups) in Europe and with countries beyond Europe on 
R&I and deployment topics of common interest. 
• Strengthened exchanges between EU Member States and Associated Countries and 
coordination with a possible future Important Project of Common European Interest 
(IPCEI) on CCAM as referred to in the Automotive Action Plan. 
• Accelerated implementation of practical safety assessment approaches and procedures 
from current validation projects across Member States and Associated Countries, reusing 
Acceptable Means of Compliance (AMC) concepts and respecting the specific 
integration aspects and legal conditions per MS.  
• A secure application exchange platform that enables applicants and Member States and 
Associated Countries to collaborate in obtaining open road-testing permits. 
• EU-wide federated scenario database 297 for the validation of CCAM systems linked to 
European in-depth accident databases.   
Scope: Several coordination and stakeholder concertation tools have been established to 
support the alignment and international outreach of CCAM projects. The FAME project 
developed a European framework for CCAM testing, evaluation and data sharing and 
managed the EU-wide Knowledge Base that consolidates information related to CCAM R&I 
and testing based on results from European and national projects, aiding researchers, 
policymakers, and industry professionals The platform will be extended in the project funded 
under the call HORIZON-CL5-2024-D6-01-05298 to address public authorities and citizens. 
Regular events such as the European Conference on Connected and Automated Driving 
(EUCAD) and EUCAD symposia, international outreach activities and interactions with the 
Member States Advisory Group (SRG), extend the work of the CCAM Partnership and 
facilitate and support international dialogues to exchange knowledge and align activities 
across Europe and globally, at research and regulatory level. 
The purpose of this exchange and alignment is to address and overcome barriers to the 
deployment of Automated Vehicles (AV) in Europe. Since 2022, Europe has introduced 
several regulatory developments aimed at facilitating the rollout of highly automated vehicles. 
The Implementing Act for Automated Driving Systems 2022/1426, the amendment to the 
Delegated Regulation 2022/2236 on type -approval, as well as the UNECE WP.29 Working 
Party on Automated/Autonomous and Connected Vehicles (GRVA) have all proposed 
 
frameworks and methods to ensure the safety of CCAM systems on the road. Despite these 
advances, a major challenge persists: the fragmented regulatory landscape for CCAM in 
Europe, which continues to hinder large -scale deployment. The FAME 299 and Hi -Drive300 
projects are working on recommendations for a harmonized open road -testing framework. 
Projects like HEADSTART 301 , SUNRISE 302 , and SYNERGIES are operationalizing the 
UNECE New Assessment/Test Method for Automated Driving (NATM) scenario -based 
approach. The project funded by call HORIZON -CL5-2024-D6-01-02 303  will extend the 
safety assurance framework (SAF) with ‘In -Service Monitoring and Reporting’ post -
deployment. Coordination mechanisms are essential as Member States update regulations to 
align perspectives and support common approval procedures. 
Proposed actions are expected to address the following aspects: 
• Extend the EU Knowledge Base with practical tools that support safe deployment, not 
only supporting researchers, policymakers, and industry professionals, but also 
addressing public authorities and citizens, to establish and prepare the implementation of 
a long-term sustainability plan for structure. 
• Accelerate the exchange and cooperation between relevant European and international 
stakeholders, including Member States and Associated Countries, with the purpose to 
accelerate deployment. This by means of co -organizing high -level events such as the 
EUCAD conference and to coordinate with a large-scale cooperation (such as an IPCEI). 
• Develop and implement practical safety assessment procedures, as well as a framework 
for the secure exchange of applications for open road -testing permits across European 
Member States, with acknowledgement for specific MS regulations and context. 
• Support the realization of EU-wide federated scenario databases, with European in-depth 
accident databases.  
The project funded under this topic is expected to continue the management and hosting of the 
CCAM Technology Observatory, including its database and content.