HORIZON-CL5-2027-02-D3-07: Concentrated solar thermal systems for decarbonising 
industrial processes 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 7 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 170. 
 
 
Expected Outcome : Renewable heating can be directly used to efficiently decarbonise 
industrial processes. Concentrated solar thermal technologies offer a great potential to supply 
renewable heat for industry for temperatures between 150°C - 400°C. Nevertheless, efforts 
are still required to demonstrate these technologies for a variety of industrial processes. 
Proposals are expected to contribute to all the following outcomes: 
• Showcase the capacity of concentrated solar thermal systems to largely meet the heat 
demand of industrial processes and to achieve a yearly solar fraction of at least 50%. 
• Increase competitiveness of concentrated solar thermal for industrial applications. This is 
to be proven by an economically feasible business case; by reducing the Levelised Cost 
of Heating (LCoH); and by valorising and promoting the competitive advantages of the 
technology such as heat storage, flexibility, and energy security.  
Scope: The proposals are expected to demonstrate concentrated solar technologies for heat 
production (within the 150°C - 400°C range), combined with storage, feeding the generated 
heat to existing heating and/or cooling processes in industry, e.g., drying, melting, 
sterilisation, refrigeration, etc. 
The proposals are expected to efficiently integrate the solar heat system in the selected 
industrial application. To a possible extent, the proposals should optimise energy efficiency 
and heat recovery of the industrial process to maximise the coverage of the heat demand by 
the solar system and to ensure an efficient solar investment. Hybridisation with other on -site 
renewable energy technologies could be considered. However, the core solutions are expected 
to focus on the concentrated solar thermal part and not on the industrial process or on the 
hybrid renewable energy technologies. 
The proposed solution is expected to be demonstrated in all possible solar incidence, and for a 
continuous period of at least 6 months. The replicability potential to other industrial processes 
should also be taken into account. 
The proposals are expected to address the techno -economic feasibility and the environmental 
impact of the proposed systems, as well as specific issues related to the integration of the solar 
systems in the industrial process such as surface availability. 
The proposal is expected to include a clear go/no go milestone before entering the deployment 
phase. Before this go/no -go milestone, the project is expected to submit: i) a proof of solid 
engagement of the industrial demonstration party, ii) all needed permits for deployment, iii) 
credible and detailed engineering plans, and iv) a complete business and implementation plan. 
The use of the European Research Infrastructure for concentrated solar power EU -SOLARIS 
is encouraged but not mandatory. 
