HORIZON-CL5-2026-03-D3-01: Targeting key value chain components for increasing 
the competitiveness of renewable energy technologies in Europe 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 3.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 9.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 155. 
 
Expected Outcome: The competitiveness and security of Europe`s clean energy system will in 
the long -run benefit from research and innovation addressing competitiveness -relevant 
criticalities of the underlying clean energy technology value chains. 
Project results are expected to contribute to at all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Strengthen European autonomy, research capacity and industrial leadership on solutions 
for competitiveness-related aspects of renewable energy value chains. 
• Develop technical and value chain solutions addressing key aspects improving the 
competitiveness of renewable energy technologies.  
Scope: In scope is the development of solutions, which addresses specifically critical aspects 
affecting the competitiveness of specific renewable energy technologies and their value chains 
from the source to the sink of the energy in a clear and significant way (by targeting e.g. 
issues such as bottle necks, game -changer technologies, primary costs). Proposals should 
focus on development of solutions critical for competitiveness in the European context in the 
long run. Issues which can be addressed include for example: Material efficiency and 
circularity, including repair possibilities, lifetime extension and end -of-life management, 
access to fully sustainable low -cost feedstock, digital and AI tools during capacity build -up 
and operation, technologies for sustainable and efficient horizontal and vertical value chain 
optimisation, optimisation of logistics and production pathways, expert knowledge and 
training (Other relevant issues can equally be addressed). Proposals should, where applicable 
also assess the benefit/cost of domestic ownership for given value chain solutions.