HORIZON-CL5-2027-01-D1-12: Better understanding and attribution of land and 
ocean carbon sources and sinks 
Call: CLIMATE 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 5.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 25.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or as 
an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced portfolio covering different research areas (A, B 
and C), grants will be awarded to applications not only in order of 
ranking, but also to at least two highest ranked applications in each of 
areas A and B and at least one in Area C, provided that the 
corresponding applications attain all thresholds. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Beneficiaries will be subject to the following additional obligations 
regarding open science practices: Open access to any new modules, 
models or tools developed from scratch or substantially improved with 
the use of EU funding under the action must be ensured through 
documentation, availability of model code and input data developed 
under the action. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 118. 
 
Expected Outcome : Project results are expected to contribute to some of the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Better understanding of oceanic carbon dioxide (CO 2) sources and sinks, their drivers 
and dynamics under different climate scenarios, including their responses to human 
interventions; 
• Better understanding of land ecosystem CO 2 sources and sinks, their drivers (both 
natural and anthropogenic) and their evolution under future climate and land -based 
mitigation scenarios; 
• Progress on reconciling estimates of anthropogenic CO 2 emissions and removals from 
land originating from the climate science and national emissions reporting communities; 
• More consistent representation and quantification of lateral transfers of carbon.  
Scope: Understanding the mechanisms and drivers of land (including inland waters) and 
ocean carbon sinks and sources is crucial for accurate climate models and scenarios and 
informing climate mitigation strategies. However, significant gaps and uncertainties remain in 
quantifying these complex processes and their components. It is essential to better understand 
the roles of anthropogenic and natural drivers of carbon fluxes, in particular the surface -to-air 
flux. This is necessary for reconciling conceptual discrepancies among estimates and 
assessing the implications for future trends and mitigation potential, taking into account that 
mitigation actions need to be additional to natural processes and business-as-usual and that the 
remaining carbon budget depends, inter alia, on assumptions on sinks. 
Proposals are expected to address only one of the three areas identified below - which should 
be clearly indicated, while ensuring coordination and cooperation across projects to address 
consistency in key factors, such as data, scenarios and models used or the representation of 
lateral transport of carbon (e.g., through river transport or harvest). Selected proposals may 
consider the involvement of the European Commission's Joint Research Centre (JRC) whose 
contribution could consist of scientific advice, specialised analytical expertise and data. This 
topic is part of a coordination initiative between ESA and the European Commission on Earth 
System Science (ESSI) under the Carbon Cluster. Successful consortia will be asked to 
coordinate with projects that will be selected under ESA’s FutureEO programme to facilitate 
access to and uptake of satellite data products and related tools or methodologies. To this end, 
 
proposals should foresee sufficient means for effective coordination (i.e. cluster meetings, 
joint data management, potential joint actions). 
International cooperation is generally encouraged, in particular with low and lower/upper -
middle-income countries119. 
Area A: Oceanic CO2 sources and sinks 
The ocean’s capacity to act as a carbon sink is determined by a variety of factors, including 
changes in climate, atmospheric composition (in particular CO 2 concentration) and chemical, 
physical and biological processes of the ocean, all influenced by human activities. Projects are 
expected to improve the understanding and quantification of the various mechanisms 
involved, with a focus on the behaviour of the ocean sink under past (including palaeo 
records), present and future conditions and various climate change and emission scenarios. 
The projects should contribute to a better understanding of the biophysical potential for 
marine mitigation approaches (in particular carbon dioxide removal) and their implications 
over relevant timeframes, including feedbacks. The analysis should also include responses to 
ambitious mitigation (e.g., atmospheric stabilisation in line with policy objectives). Projects 
should build on the results of related earlier projects, in particular those under call 
HORIZON-CL6-2022-CLIMATE-01-02. 
Area B: Land CO2 sources and sinks 
Currently, land ecosystems globally represent a significant net carbon sink, driven by natural 
processes greatly perturbed by a variety of human influences, including past and present land 
management practices, increasing atmospheric CO 2 concentrations, nitrogen deposition and 
climate change itself. They are also a significant source of anthropogenic greenhouse gas 
emissions. Natural responses to environmental change and management effects overlap and 
interact in space and time, making the isolation of different factors (natural and 
anthropogenic) challenging or even impossible. Projects will aim to further our understanding 
of the key factors that have driven land carbon fluxes in the past and improving their 
quantification under present conditions and facilitating their projection under relevant climate 
and land use scenarios. 
Area C: Reconciliation of different land use CO2 emission estimates 
The climate science and national emissions reporting communities have historically used 
different interpretations of anthropogenic land -based CO2 emissions and removals, leading to 
varying estimates with significant policy implications for assessing climate progress. It is 
crucial to reconcile these definitions with due consideration for lateral transfers of carbon to 
ensure comparability across global, regional, and national scales, to foster integration between 
different expert communities and approaches and to support policy negotiations and decision -
making approaches. Through innovative approaches, the projects should enhance confidence 
 
in land -use CO 2 flux estimates and enable more accurate assessments of national and 
collective climate progress, as well as alternative land-based climate policy options.