HORIZON-CL5-2026-04-Two-Stage-D3-02: Next generation of renewable energy 
technologies 
Call: ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 23.50 million. 
 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 156. 
 
Expected Outcome : Projects are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Breakthrough and game changing renewable energy technologies enabling a faster 
transition to a net-zero greenhouse gas emissions EU economy by 2050. 
• Measures, knowledge and data have been demonstrating that the technology has a 
minimal environmental impact (notably on biodiversity and pollution), has gained 
citizens’ trust, is economically viable and benefits from a multi-level policy support. 
• Establishing a solid long term dependable European innovation base.  
Scope: The proposal is expected to address high -risk and high return technology 
developments for game changing renewable energy technologies. It could cover, for example, 
catalyst development, renewable energy storage systems, integration of renewable energy 
technologies into a single energy generation system, hybrid renewable energy systems, 
heating & cooling systems, fuels production systems, (direct) solar fuels and solar driven 
chemical processes, hybrid electricity generation solutions between different renewable 
energy sources, direct utilization of renewable energy sources. 
 
The following areas are excluded from the scope of the topic as they fall within the scope of 
partnerships or other calls: 
• Hydrogen production through electrolysers. 
• Fuel cells. 
• Basic material research. 
• Batteries.  
The proposal is expected to establish technological feasibility of its concept through a robust 
research methodology, at least TRL 4 or at most TRL 5. The concept could be based on a new 
solution or on the improvement of an existing high -risk and high return solution. Technology 
transfer from sectors other than energy should be considered whenever relevant, as it may 
provide ideas, experiences, technology contributions, knowledge, skills, and new approaches. 
For bioenergy or biofuel concepts, whenever the direct use of biogenic waste is considered, 
resource availability and treatment will be taken into account from the design stage. 
In developing its concept, the proposal is expected to address the following related aspects: 
lower environmental impact, minimise impacts on biodiversity and protected species and 
habitats, reduced pollution, better resource efficiency (materials, geographical footprints, 
water, etc…). Whenever risks have been identified, mitigation measures need to be presented. 
The proposal is expected also to present a comparison with current commercial renewable 
energy technologies and/or solutions to show its advantages in terms of expected economic 
performance, environmental impact (notably on biodiversity and pollution), energy security, 
competitivity and industrial independence157. 
Selected projects are expected to consider the drivers behind social acceptance and trust -
building of the technological solution and assess the best way to promote local involvement as 
part of ensuring a just transition (gender, cultural and socio -economic factors should be 
accounted for). An analysis of policy approaches that are encompassing (policy mixes), 
adaptive (policy learning) and context sensitive (working for different places, levels and/or 
sectors) should also be performed in order to support the deployment of the future new 
technology. 
This topic requires the effective contribution of SSH disciplines and the involvement of SSH 
experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce 
meaningful and significant effects enhancing the societal impact of the related research 
activities. 
 
Proposals are encouraged to consider, where relevant, services offered by European research 
infrastructures158, as well as related projects offering access to research infrastructures in the 
clean energy domain- particularly RISEnergy159.