HORIZON-CL5-2027-05-D4-07: Integrating circularity in LCA -based modelling 
frameworks for renovation of buildings (Built4People Partnership) 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.75 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 27.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 232. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Demonstration of measurable reductions in material flows, life cycle energy use and 
GHG emissions in building renovations that integrate circularity strategies to contribute 
to achieving net-zero whole life carbon buildings; 
• More robust approach to current modelling frameworks to comprehensively reflect the 
complexity of circularity strategies in life cycle assessments at building scale.   
Scope: European buildings are increasingly adopting circularity strategies in renovations to 
reduce life cycle environmental impacts and improve resource efficiency in response to the 
requirements based on current frameworks, such as Level(s) and WLC models used by 
Member States based and EN 15978 standard. The complexity of these circularity strategies, 
such as material reuse and recycling, and addressing the changing nature of assessed systems 
with long life cycles are critical for achieving more reliable assessment results. Further work 
is needed to advance and achieve more detailed modelling frameworks that integrate 
circularity assessment with life cycle assessment, supporting the delivery of net -zero whole-
life carbon buildings. 
Proposals should address all of the following: 
• Develop a comprehensive modelling framework that integrates circularity assessment in 
life cycle, covering cradle to cradle system boundary; 
• Apply the developed modelling framework to at least three real-life buildings in different 
climatic regions in different Member States or Associated Countries, for which 
renovation project developers have adopted ambitious circularity strategies to achieve 
zero whole -life carbon buildings. Circularity strategies should include reuse and/or 
recycle, as well as at least one of the following: reduce, repair, refurbish, remanufacture, 
and repurpose; 
• Assess the embodied emissions (from materials, products, and construction processes) 
and operational emissions (from energy use for HVAC, DHW, electrical appliances, 
lighting) of the real -life buildings subjected to renovations during their entire life cycle, 
referencing life cycle stages in EN 15978.   
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on ‘People -centric 
sustainable built environment’ (Built4People). As such, projects resulting from this topic will 
be expected to contribute to the objectives of Built4People, transfer knowledge to its network 
 
of innovation clusters233 and report on results in support of the monitoring of the Built4People 
KPIs.