HORIZON-CL5-2027-05-D4-05: On-site robotic and automated techniques for building 
renovation and new construction 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.75 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 20.25 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or as 
an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 229. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Improved resource efficiency compared to current practices; 
• Improved accuracy (designed vs. as -built) of on-site renovation and construction works, 
compared to current best practices; 
• Significant reduction in time spent by building professionals on site; 
• Reduced GHG emissions at the construction site.   
Scope: The rate of deep renovation of buildings can be accelerated by modernising the 
construction sector and embracing the latest developments in robotics and automated systems. 
There is need for further development of techniques using innovative on-site robotic and other 
automated systems that make renovation and construction works more sustainable, less 
disruptive, faster as well as more accurate, cost effective and resource efficient, while 
delivering, at least, the same building elements’ energy performance compared to current best 
practices. Proposals are expected to address all of the following: 
• Demonstrate innovative on -site robotic and automated techniques for building 
renovation and the construction of new buildings. At least one of the proposed 
techniques should involve 3D printing; 
• Develop techniques that are specifically for building -site applications (e.g. solutions 
focusing on prefabrication in workshops/factories away from the building site are out oof 
the scope), flexible to adapt to various building typologies and, where possible, to 
materials and components already on the market; 
• Ensure that the proposed techniques appropriately take into account aspects of on -site 
workers’ safety and human-robot collaboration; 
• Demonstrate the proposed techniques in at least three demonstrations to investigate their 
applicability for a variety of building typologies and climatic conditions, duly justified to 
represent a relevant part of the European building stock. Proposals must address the 
energy renovation of existing buildings but may also address new constructions.   
 
Selected proposals could consider the involvement of the European Commission's Joint 
Research Centre (JRC) whose contribution could consist of scientific advice and technical 
analysis of solutions and technologies, support to the transfer of research output to standards, 
and access to the European Laboratory for Structural Assessment research infrastructure for 
full-scale testing of buildings.