HORIZON-CL5-2026-09-D4-03: Advanced data platforms to integrate whole life carbon 
in building information tools, assessments, and certification (Built4People Partnership) 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 5.25 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 15.75 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 225. 
 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Increased number of building information tools, assessments and/or certificates makes 
use of digital data exchange platforms; 
• More accurate and reliable EU-aligned life cycle inventories of embodied environmental 
flows in construction materials and products; 
• Increased number of already existing building standards and certification schemes refer 
to GWP to support national decarbonisation strategies in line with relevant European 
legislation (such as Energy Performance of Buildings Directive, Construction Products 
Regulation and delegated acts, voluntary label for carbon footprint of steel, Delegated 
Act for carbon removal certification in long-lasting products); 
• Improved data availability and interoperability for whole life carbon assessments across 
different building lifecycle stages.   
Scope: The Energy Performance of Buildings Directive (EPBD) recast places an increased 
emphasis on addressing whole life carbon and the calculation of the global warming potential 
(GWP) of buildings as part of its holistic approach to enhancing building sustainability. 
Several projects have focused on developing data analytics tools to integrate building energy 
performance certificates (EPCs) with other tools like the Smart Readiness Indicator (SRI), 
Building Renovation Passports (BRPs), and Digital Building Logbooks into a unified 
framework or global information tool. More work is needed to integrate whole life carbon 
data in energy information tools to capture both operational carbon (energy used during the 
building's use phase) and embodied carbon (associated with extraction of raw materials, 
manufacturing, transportation, construction, and eventual disposal or recycling), as well as the 
(potential for) carbon removal in sustainably sourced construction products. On the other 
hand, more robust life cycle assessments based on more accurate and reliable national and 
international life cycle inventories of embodied environmental flows are needed to set up a 
solid construction digital product passport system. 
Proposals are expected to address all of the following: 
• Demonstrate digital data exchange platforms for buildings to enable the development of 
comprehensive building information tools, assessments and/or certificates. These 
platforms should incorporate a wide range of data from, for example, whole life carbon 
assessments, national/international databases of embodied flow coefficients for 
construction materials and products, Digital Product Passports, Energy Performance 
Certificates, Smart Readiness Indicators, Building Renovation Passports, and Digital 
Building Logbooks. 

• Use advanced data analytics and wherever possible existing recognised data standards to 
exchange data and ensure the interoperability with real-time digital twins and BIM-based 
models. 
• Validate the proposed platforms in at least three large scale pilots. These pilots must 
encompass a range of building types (such as residential, commercial, educational, etc.) 
and address diverse use cases (including energy monitoring, renovation optimization, 
etc.).   
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on ‘People -centric 
sustainable built environment’ (Built4People). As such, projects resulting from this topic will 
be expected to contribute to the objectives of Built4People, transfer knowledge to its network 
of innovation clusters226 and report on results in support of the monitoring of the Built4People 
KPIs.