HORIZON-CL5-2027-01-D1-13: Next generation scenarios for informing climate and 
sustainability transitions 
Call: CLIMATE 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 24.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: The consortium must 
include as beneficiary or associated partner at least three independent 
legal entities established in three different low or lower/upper -middle-
income countries120. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced portfolio covering different research areas (A, B 
and C), grants will be awarded to applications not only in order of 
ranking but also to at least two highest ranked applications in each area, 
provided that the corresponding applications attain all thresholds. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Beneficiaries will be subject to the following additional obligations 
regarding open science practices: Open access to any new modules, 
models or tools developed from scratch or substantially improved with 
 
the use of EU funding under the action must be ensured through 
documentation, availability of model code and input data developed 
under the action. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 121. 
 
Expected Outcome : Project results are expected to contribute to some of the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Strengthened collaboration and integration across research communities, better capturing 
interactions and trade-offs between various climate domains as well as between climate 
and non-climate objectives, such as biodiversity or pollution related. This will support 
more comprehensive and consistent evaluations, benefiting key global assessments 
(IPCC, IPBES) and improving their impact on European and global policies (European 
Green Deal, UNFCCC, CBD); 
• More relevant, robust and actionable scenarios that inform optimal policy interventions, 
serving the needs and supporting decision -making of diverse end-users at various spatial 
scales, from policymakers and planning authorities to businesses and civil society; 
• More globally representative, diverse, inclusive, transparent, widely accepted and better 
communicated scenarios that support climate -resilient development pathways and foster 
global consensus on climate action.  
Scope: Climate scenarios have been instrumental in shaping global, national, and increasingly 
local responses to climate change by helping stakeholders make informed decisions. Against 
the backdrop of rapid environmental shifts, social upheavals, high uncertainties and 
complexity, scenarios must be advanced to inform low -emission climate-resilient pathways, 
while also accounting for other critical policy priorities, such as environmental protection. 
Actions should improve Integrated Assessment Models (IAMs) or propose alternative 
approaches to address key challenges and gaps in current climate scenario frameworks. They 
should extend the scope of scenarios beyond the 21st century, enlarge the future possibility 
space with more diverse narratives and drivers (e.g. post -growth), more explicit consideration 
of equity, justice, geopolitics and attention to inclusivity. 
Proposals are expected to address only one of the following priority areas, which should be 
clearly indicated: 
 
Area A: Integration of climate impacts and adaptation dimension 
Develop approaches to better integrate physical climate impacts, adaptation, its costs and 
limits into mitigation pathways. This includes exploring how climate impacts including 
extremes and biophysical feedbacks affect mitigation strategies, testing the resilience of low -
emission pathways to climate impacts, and how adaptation interacts with mitigation. 
Area B: Improved scenario frameworks 
Update baseline scenarios and expand scenario narratives to better address multi -scale, cross-
sectoral issues and the needs of downstream assessments. Scenarios should capture a wider 
range of plausible futures to reflect changing socio -economic and environmental conditions 
(including a broader range of economic growth assumptions), technological advancements, 
evolving policy landscape and disruptive events. This includes extension of Shared 
Socioeconomic Pathways (SSP) and Representative Concentration Pathways (RCP) scenario 
framework, or development of alternatives, to enhance regional and local applicability, to 
support adaptation pathway development, and to improve relevance beyond the climate 
research community - notably for biodiversity and SDGs. 
Area C: Improved policy representation 
Enhance the granularity and diversity of policy (both mitigation and adaptation) 
representation in scenarios with more focus on implementation aspects to bridge the gap 
between modelled pathways and real-world action. Address social, geopolitical, economic and 
technological factors, considering interactions between industrial, trade, climate and other 
environmental policies (e.g. air pollution). Examine implications for competitiveness, 
employment, investment flows, energy security, supply chain resilience, technological 
innovation, international spillovers, as well as well -being. Investigate implementation and 
impact of recent commitments and initiatives (e.g. fossil fuel phase -out, Global Methane 
Pledge) and the impact of rising geopolitical tensions on their implementation, and mitigation 
action overall. 
Actions should promote transdisciplinary collaboration and co -design with stakeholders to 
integrate diverse perspectives and needs They should develop and test new approaches, 
including communication, to improve uptake of results by various audiences. The topic 
therefore requires inclusion of relevant SSH expertise, to produce meaningful and significant 
effects to enhance the societal impact of related research activities. 
All projects funded from this topic are strongly encouraged to collaborate and envisage 
clustering activities together and with other relevant projects in and outside of Horizon 
Europe. They should contribute to the organisation of the European Climate and Energy 
Modelling Platform 122 conferences to foster dialogue between scientists, policymakers and 
 
other stakeholders. They should also support inclusive and transparent model intercomparison 
exercises, aligning with the efforts of the European Climate and Energy Modelling Forum123. 
International cooperation is generally encouraged and specifically required with low, and 
lower/upper-middle-income countries124 – particularly major GHG emitters 125 such as China 
(contributing to the EU-China Climate Change and Biodiversity (CCB) flagship initiative 126), 
India, Brazil and Indonesia. It should ensure diverse, globally representative scenario space 
and, where appropriate, foster capacity development. 
 
