HORIZON-CL5-2027-05-D4-09: Demonstration of industrial excess/waste heat 
conversion to mechanical or electrical power 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.75 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 13.50 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 7 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 236. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Based on the results of the project, at least one industrial sector with a significant heating 
demand in the EU and Associated Countries develops pathways and business models to 
measurably increase the industrial excess/waste heat recovery and conversion to power. 
• Measurable improvement of industrial excess/waste heat recovery and conversion to 
power, possibly combined with energy storage, in terms of energy efficiency, flexibility 
of electricity production, climate and environment protection, reliability and safety, 
physical and cyber security, and profitability.   
Scope: Better use of process excess/waste heat represents a significant source of energy 
savings for industries. The conversion of excess heat back to electricity, would improve 
energy efficiency, mitigate the increase of electricity consumption due to industrial 
electrification, as well as offer flexible electricity generation to stabilise the grid, if combined 
with thermal and/or electrical energy storage. 
Projects must address all the following items: 
• Develop and validate novel excess/waste heat recovery and conversion systems. 
• Demonstrate physically within one or more operational industrial site(s), the recovery of 
industrial excess/waste heat, possibly combined with energy storage, and its conversion 
to mechanical or electrical power. 
• Maximise the replicability and deployment of the concept/solution in the EU and 
Associated Countries’ plants in the same industrial sector. Already before starting the 
design phase, the needs of most EU and Associated Countries’ factories in the same 
industrial sector(s) should be surveyed and analysed in order to design a solution that can 
be adapted to meet most of them. 
• Identify common components, optimise and define a standardised version of them. 
• Develop open technical and economical guidelines and open tools for integrating such 
systems into SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition) and EMS (Energy 
Management System) infrastructures of existing plants, and for developing innovative 
 
business model of heat valorisation as a flexible electricity generation offered to stabilise 
the power grid. 
• Disseminate results notably (but not only) to the relevant communities in cluster 4 
‘Digital, Industry and Space’ private-public partnerships.  
