HORIZON-CL5-2026-06-Two-Stage-D5-19: Non-exhaust emissions in road and railway 
transport  
Call: MOBILITY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.50 and 4.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 7.50 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Applicants submitting a proposal for a blind evaluation (see General 
Annex F) must not disclose their organisation names, acronyms, logos 
nor names of personnel in the proposal abstract and Part B of their 
first-stage application (see General Annex E). 
Eligibility conditions The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, 
navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must 
make use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and 
services may additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 5-6 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The first-stage proposals of this topic will be evaluated blindly. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Methods and tools to support measurement, simulation and validation of non -exhaust 
pollutant emissions in road and railway transport into the environment; 
• Estimates on the impact of these pollutants on human health, terrestrial ecosystems and 
the aquatic environment (including biodiversity in these ecosystems) with particular 
focus on microplastics and other heavier non-airborne particles; 
• Delivery of better emission factors for emission inventories and projections, including 
the European Monitoring and Evaluation Programme (EMEP), also for resuspension, for 
which little knowledge exists today; 
• Recommendations and mitigation strategies including the determination of appropriate 
KPIs and assessing the effectiveness of control measures with an appropriate cost -
benefit analysis to understand the economic and practical feasibility of different 
emission reduction strategies.  
Scope: With continuous increase in electrification of the car fleet and railways, the share of 
non-exhaust particulate emissions into the environment becomes increasingly important. Non-
exhaust emissions (NEE) of particles apply to all forms of ground transport and can be 
categorised as those coming from several sources, such as brake wear, tyre wear, pantograph -
catenary wear, wheel-rail contact, road surface wear, as well as vehicle -induced resuspension 
of road/track dust deposited on the surface. There may be other sources, e.g. engine belts and 
clutch plates. Quantitative data on the magnitude of non -exhaust emissions are fragmented 
and highly uncertain, particularly when compared to data for exhaust emissions. Emissions 
vary widely according to brake, tyre and road surface material, and with driving style. Further 
research efforts are necessary to increase the understanding of these particles, their creation, 
ageing and dispersion in the environment. 
Moreover, the health impact of NEEs is far less studied, and it remains unclear whether these 
predominately solid/non -soluble PM may induce the same effects as combustion PM. 
Additionally, these pollutants has been reported to adversely affect terrestrial systems and 
aquatic environment as well as the biodiversity; however, it is not clear to what extent. 
Research into rail particulate emissions is an equally important area due to its implications for 
air quality, human health, and environmental impact. However, research data on the health 
impacts of specific particulate components is limited. Furthermore, comprehensive studies on 
the chemical composition of rail particulates are scarce. The impact of rail particulates on soil, 
water, and ecosystems and their biodiversity is not well understood, while more data is 
needed on how particulates disperse and deposit in different environments, especially in urban 
versus rural areas. Addressing these research gaps would provide a more comprehensive 
understanding of rail particulate emissions and contribute to the development of effective 
mitigation strategies. 
In order to address the two aforementioned areas (road and rail), R&I actions are expected to 
address the following aspects: 
• Methods and tools for the segregation of NEE particle sources: i) during particle 
collection (e.g., due to high background concentrations), ii) attribution of collected 
material to different sources. Appropriate real -world test conditions, equipment and 
sampling methods for the evaluation of particles (e.g., separation of total and solid 
particles) 
• Source identification and characterization including detailed source apportionment 
(brake wear, tyre wear, wheel -rail interaction, resuspension, etc.) and chemical 
composition; 
• Assessment of the influencing parameters: use cases (e.g. different vehicle types or tyre 
types), conditions (e.g. urban, rural, motorways, tunnels), driving behaviour, state of the 
road surface or rail tracks; attribution and distribution; 
• Emission Measurement Techniques including but not limited to standardized 
measurement methods and real-time monitoring;
• Downstream assessment: analysis of the deposited material in the environment, 
assessment of its decomposition, aggregation, dispersion and degradation; 
• Health Impact estimates building on existing toxicology studies (or developing new ones 
if deemed necessary) and long -term exposure effects supported by gender disaggregated 
data collection and intersectional analysis; 
• Estimates on the environmental impact on soil, water, and ecosystems and their 
biodiversity as well as deposition patterns (i.e. how particulates disperse and deposit in 
different environments, especially in urban versus rural areas.) 
• Mitigations through focusing on State -of-the-Art systems: test systems (including the 
vehicle e.g., vehicle -lightweight technologies) that can mitigate non -exhaust emissions 
to reach TRL 6 or higher, innovative tyre and brake designs and materials that balance 
durability, safety, and reduced abrasion, innovative road surfaces and texture 
(considering the interaction between tyre and road), runoff and drainage systems. For the 
railway sector mitigation solutions could include test systems addressing emissions from 
key mechanical interfaces (e.g., braking and wheel –rail contact), vehicle innovations to 
reduce wear -related emissions, and infrastructure measures such as optimized track 
materials, surface treatments, and improved drainage and containment systems. Consider 
life cycle assessment for the analysis of the systems 
• Support standardization and regulation based on the recommendations in support of 
industrial competitiveness  
Proposals should take into consideration the results of previous or on -going EU funded 
projects such as Leon-T, ULTRAHAS, nPETS and LIFE23-ENV-ES-LIFE NEEVE and any 
other similar projects.