HORIZON-CL5-2026-03-D3-21: Novel solutions for off -grid storage of renewable 
energy for critical infrastructures 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Technology Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
 
Readiness Level see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 202. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Enhanced European knowledge and leadership in off -grid clean energy storage 
technologies. 
• Improved energy security and cost-effectiveness of Europe's energy systems, particularly 
for critical infrastructure. 
• Elimination of fossil -based backup solutions for critical infrastructures, strengthening 
European competitiveness.   
Scope: The topic aims to develop novel, cost -efficient off-grid energy storage solutions for 
renewable energy, tailored for critical infrastructures such as hospitals, transport hubs, data 
centres, and utilities. Solutions should address challenges specific to off -grid or non -
interconnected area contexts, including storage scale, compromised grid interaction, resilience 
to potential shortages of critical materials, and multi -energy needs (electricity, heating, 
cooling). Emphasis should be on robustness and error -freeness, while considering 
sustainability, efficiency and performance. The project should foresee these solutions for 
using real-world critical infrastructures through simulation and experiments and establishing a 
procedure for decision -making, focusing on energy security and resilience against high -
impact, low-probability events, by ensuring operational efficiency both on -grid and off -grid. 
Where relevant, interdependencies among critical infrastructures and system redundancy 
should be considered. 
Projects are encouraged to support the reconstruction of Ukraine by including Ukrainian 
beneficiaries. 
 
