HORIZON-CL5-2027-06-D6-11: Enhancing Resilience and Accuracy in Positioning, 
Navigation, and Timing (PNT) Systems and e-conspicuity solutions  
Call: MOBILITY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 5.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 5.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -7 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 320. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Development of solutions integrating 5G networks, supported by advanced signal 
processing techniques (e.g. AI -Enhanced Signal Processing) to improve the accuracy of 
PNT systems, as GNSS backup solutions to enhance resilience in contested 
environments, including filtering noise and interference from signals to enhance the 
precision of location data, and appropriate post -quantum cryptographic measures to 
enhance resilience against emerging threats. 
• Integration with Other Technologies: Development of solutions leveraging Internet of 
Things (sensors, communication signals, AI -enhanced processing), and other sensing 
techniques to provide redundant and resilient navigation solutions and to enhance 
capabilities and applications, especially at low altitude airspace. 
• E-conspicuity: Definition of mobile communication performance requirements for e -
conspicuity, assessment of network performance and determination of minimum 
availability requirements for mobile telephony for collision to support collision 
avoidance for a drone and manned aircraft. 
 
• Analysis of policy and regulatory aspects to better understand the legal and regulatory 
issues surrounding the deployment and use of PNT systems, including concerns related 
to privacy, spectrum management, international cooperation, and harmonisation of 
regulatory frameworks and shared technologies.  
Scope: Today’s Position, Navigation and Timing (PNT) services are primarily provided 
through Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) that tend to have weak signals and are 
vulnerable to jamming and spoofing. 
This topic addresses alternative PNT methods that are essential to provide fallback options in 
case of GNSS signal loss or degradation. Great benefit is expected through integration of PNT 
technology with rapidly emerging technologies, such as 5G/6G and Internet of Things (IoT). 
The aim is to investigate innovative solutions for PNT – including the impact on the 
regulatory framework, integrating advanced 5G technologies and IoT to act as 
complementary, redundant, secure and resilient navigation solutions for aviation, including 
UAS, in challenging environments. 
The topic also addresses e -conspicuity, aiming to enhance pilot awareness notably at lower 
altitudes in U-space airspace in order to reduces collision risk in general aviation, where most 
small aircraft rely on see -and-avoid. Mobile telephony, with minimum network performance 
requirements, can provide a safe, affordable communication solution for U -space entry and 
flight safety.