HORIZON-CL5-2026-10-D2-03: Integrated Production and Product Development for 
Next-Generation Lithium-based Batteries for Mobility (BATT4EU and Made in Europe 
Partnerships) 
Call: BATTERIES and MOBILITY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
33.30 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 100.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Due to the complexity of the topic, the page limit for proposals is 
increased to 60 pages. 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or 
as an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -7 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B.  
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced portfolio covering different sectors, grants will be 
awarded to proposals not only in order of ranking but at least also to 
one proposal that is the highest ranked within the automotive sector and 
one proposal that is the highest ranked within the aviation sector, 
provided that the proposals attain all thresholds. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Proposals are expected to contribute to all following points: 
• The projects must fulfil the performance targets, at the cell and system level, 
corresponding to the specific targeted application, to be specified in the proposal. 
Appropriate KPI must be defined for the energy density (volumetric and gravimetric), 
Power density and C -rate, number of cycles and cost defined under operational 
conditions. 
• Boost EU competitiveness in next -generation battery technologies for mobility 
applications. 
• Develop pilot manufacturing capability for next generation lithium-based batteries. 
• Strengthen the EU battery value chain, including new manufacturing equipment, 
automation, and scalable production processes. 
• Advance the understanding of next -generation battery interfaces at an industrial scale, 
ensuring manufacturability, durability, and cost-effectiveness.  
• In the case of aviation, the battery requirements should be compatible at minimum with 
EASA CS.23 (level 4), CS.27 and preferably with CS.25 categories.   
Scope: This topic will support the scaling -up of next generation (i.e., beyond generation 3) 
lithium-based batteries (e.g., semi and all -solid state, generation5) from cell prototypes (TRL 
4-5) to demonstration of scalable production and demonstration of cell integration into 
module/pack level. The projects will cover pilot production, process automation, system 
integration and demonstration, advanced cell design, and supply chain development to ensure 
that Europe remains at the forefront of battery innovation. 
The projects must address the needs of a single specific and strategically relevant transport 
mode, and the targeted mode must be clearly indicated in the proposal. The following 
transport modes are in scope: Automotive; Aviation; Rail; Waterborne. 
The projects are expected to cover all of the following production targets: 
• Upscaling of components production Technologies:        
 Optimisation and pilot -scale integration methods of anode and cathode materials 
compatible with next generation electrolytes    
• Development of Cell Concepts, Manufacturing Equipment and Machinery        
 Development of flexible and high -throughput processing methods for large -scale 
cell production (e.g., laser patterning, vacuum sintering, and advanced calendaring).     
 Development of next-generation production machinery, tailored for next generation 
lithium-ion cell manufacturing (e.g., solid electrolyte deposition tools, high -
precision stacking machines).    
• Design and demonstration of module and packs into vehicles/relevant environment         
 Develop module/pack design and relevant sensors and Battery Management 
Systems (BMS), optimised for supporting the system, for seamless cell -to-system 
integration, regulatory compliance, and specific end-user application requirements.     
 Perform comprehensive validation, including performance, durability, and safety 
testing under realistic operational conditions, addressing thermal management, 
mechanical stress, vibration resistance, and electrical performance at relevant 
scales.    
The Commission initiative for Safe and Sustainable by Design135 (SSbD) sets a framework for 
assessing the safety and sustainability of chemicals and materials which should be considered 
as a reference for project proposals. 
Whenever the expected exploitation of project results entails developing, creating, 
manufacturing and marketing a product or process, or in creating and providing a service, the 
plan for the exploitation and dissemination of results must include a strategy for such 
exploitation. The exploitation plans are expected to include preliminary plans for scalability, 
commercialisation, and deployment (feasibility study, business plan) indicating the possible 
funding sources to be potentially used (in particular the Innovation Fund). 
Proposals could consider the involvement of the European Commission's Joint Research 
Centre (JRC) 136 whose contribution could consist of performing experimental or desk -top 
research on battery performance or safety. For further information on the JRC’s possible 
contribution to the projects, please, search for additional publicly available information on the 
JRC’s website137 (EU Science Hub) on the NCP portal, or request specific information from 
the JRC (JRC-NCP-Network@ec.europa.eu) 
JRC will assure that all the other applicants receive the same information on the JRC’s 
possible contribution to the project (e.g., via the topic -specific FAQs under the Funding and 
Tenders Portal). 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on Batteries (Batt4EU) and 
the co-programmed Partnership on Advanced Manufacturing in Europe (Made in Europe). As 
such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected to report on the results to the 
European Partnership on Batteries (Batt4EU) and Made in Europe in support of the 
monitoring of its KPIs. 
This topic contributes to the industrial action plan for the automotive sector.