HORIZON-CL5-2027-02-D2-06: Sustainable and Competitive Cell Production 
Techniques for Lithium-ion And Sodium-ion Batteries (BATT4EU Partnership) 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
18.90 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 37.80 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
 
conditions exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, 
navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must 
make use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and 
services may additionally be used). 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or 
as an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the 
preparation and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -7 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Proposals are expected to contribute to all following points: 
• Significantly enhanced competitiveness, resilience, and sustainability of the European 
battery cell manufacturing industry, achieving measurable reductions in capital 
expenditure (CAPEX), operational expenditure (OPEX), energy consumption, and 
environmental footprint compared to state-of-the-art processes. 
• Demonstrated advanced manufacturing processes and equipment that substantially 
decrease battery production costs and improve overall production efficiency and battery 
quality. 
• Established flexible and modular pilot production lines capable of efficiently 
transitioning between various battery chemistries and compositions, with demonstrated 
reduction in cross-contamination and effective management of sensitive materials.   
Scope: Proposals are expected to target the development and demonstration of innovative, 
next-generation battery cell manufacturing processes and machinery. These solutions are 
expected to explicitly focus on simultaneously achieving significant cost reductions and 
considerable decreases in energy consumption over the battery lifecycle, while maintaining or 
improving battery cell quality and sustainability metrics. 
Proposals are expected to address all of the following: 
• Demonstration of flexible, modular, and reconfigurable machinery to be integrated in 
manufacturing pilot lines that effectively accommodate transitions between various 
lithium-ion chemistries/compositions and sodium-ion chemistries. 
• Development and demonstration novel mixing systems and novel electrode 
manufacturing techniques with advanced inline quality control 
• Optimization of dry -room cell assembly processes, including the development and 
validation of advanced assembly equipment and techniques to significantly increase cell 
assembly throughput rates, reduce overall energy consumption associated with 
maintaining dry-room conditions, and enhance environmental controls 
• Establishment of rapid and energy -efficient cell formation processes, significantly 
shortening formation and aging times compared to state of the art and enhancing quality 
assurance. 
• Digitalisation of the production line, including in -line quality testing and identification 
of defects. 
• Inclusion of comprehensive techno-economic assessments (TEA) and life-cycle analyses 
(LCA) to demonstrate clear environmental, economic, and scalability advantages over 
existing, state-of-the-art battery cell manufacturing practices.  
The Commission initiative for Safe and Sustainable by Design143 (SSbD) sets a framework for 
assessing the safety and sustainability of chemicals and materials which should be considered 
as a reference for project proposals. 
Whenever the expected exploitation of project results entails developing, creating, 
manufacturing and marketing a product or process, or in creating and providing a service, the 
plan for the exploitation and dissemination of results must include a strategy for such 
exploitation. The exploitation plans are expected to include preliminary plans for scalability, 
commercialisation, and deployment (feasibility study, business plan) indicating the possible 
funding sources to be potentially used (in particular the Innovation Fund). 
Proposals could consider the involvement of the European Commission's Joint Research 
Centre (JRC) 144 whose contribution could consist of performing experimental or desk -top 
research on battery performance or safety. For further information on the JRC’s possible 
contribution to the projects, please, search for additional publicly available information on the 
JRC’s website145 (EU Science Hub) on the NCP portal, or request specific information from 
the JRC (JRC-NCP-Network@ec.europa.eu) 
JRC will assure that all the other applicants receive the same information on the JRC’s 
possible contribution to the project (e.g., via the topic -specific FAQs under the Funding and 
Tenders Portal). 
 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on Batteries (Batt4EU). As 
such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected to report on the results to the 
European Partnership on Batteries (Batt4EU) in support of the monitoring of its KPIs.