HORIZON-CL5-2027-07-D3-27: Integrated Approaches for Retrofitting Infrastructures 
with Innovative Energy Storage Technologies 
Call: ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 7.50 
 
contribution per 
project 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 22.50 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 212. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Improved energy security of the energy system by offering cost -effective and efficient 
solutions for additional diverse and flexible energy storage capacities. 
• Improve the sustainability and circularity of energy storage systems. 
• Enhanced economic viability of energy storage by utilizing existing infrastructures.   
Scope: Demonstration of novel or improved technological solutions for cost -efficient, circular 
and sustainable energy storage, which contribute to grid flexibility and make use of existing 
obsolete or outdated energy or other infrastructures. Proposals should integrate the synergies 
between novel or improved energy storage technologies and retrofitting of obsolete or 
outdated infrastructures, like e.g. old hydropower dams and basins, decommissioned power 
plants, former industrial facilities, coal mines, fossil fuel infrastructure etc. by optimizing at 
 
the same time storage capacity and efficiency as well as circularity and socioeconomic and 
environmental sustainability, which should be addressed, e.g. by stakeholder outreach and 
consideration of possible environmental impacts. Furthermore, proposals should follow secure 
by design approach and integrate built-in security in the energy systems. 
Selected projects are expected to contribute to the BRIDGE initiative 213  and actively 
participate in its activities.