HORIZON-CL5-2027-02-D3-10: Renewable Energy Valleys in Africa to increase energy 
security and energy access in Africa 
Call: BATTERIES and ENERGY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.50 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a proposal 
requesting different amounts. 
Indicative 
budget 
The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 9.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Due to the scope of this topic, legal entities established in all African 
Union member states are exceptionally eligible for Union funding. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: At least two legal 
entities established in at least two different African Union member states 
must be part of the consortium as beneficiaries. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 8 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The following additions to the general award criteria apply: For the 
criterion 'Quality and efficiency of the implementation' , in addition to 
its standard aspects, the following aspect shall constitute a major element: 
Demonstrated access to necessary land and / or permits for operation at the 
time of application and / or convincing risk management regarding 
delayed availability of land or permits. Risk management can include go / 
no-go decisions at mid-term. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Strengthening of the joint EU-AU Climate Change and Sustainable Energy Collaborative 
Partnership efforts, with emphasis on improving the visibility of EU Science Diplomacy 
actions in Africa and supporting Global Gateway Strategy priorities. 
• Acceleration of the achievements of the African countries’ targets of the Paris 
Agreement. 
• Increase the roll -out of local or regional renewable energy system solutions for 
electricity, heat and fuel needs and contribute to a fair trade between Africa and Europe. 
• Create new sustainable silks and jobs linked to local or regional renewable energy 
system value chains and enhance economic growth in local or regional African 
communities. 
• Increase the readiness, reliability, performance and affordability of local or regional 
renewable energy system solutions in Africa.  
Scope: Renewable energy valleys are understood as decentralised renewable energy systems 
that offer a viable and efficient solution to the challenges mentioned above. For example, 
local production and consumption, reduced transmission and distribution losses thanks to the 
reliance on local networks for energy needs, greater operational flexibility and reduced 
dependence on expensive fuel imports all contribute to a higher energy autonomy, a more 
secure supply, and lower, more stable overall energy costs, including for individual citizens. 
In addition, this alleviates a part of the load on the centralised grid and avoids blockages by 
the capacity of the grid. 
The action should cover either urbanised or rural contexts in Africa. It should contribute to 
providing sustainable renewable energy access and creating other socio -economic benefits, 
such as improved health, economic wealth, skills and jobs, while reducing the stress on the 
environment, notably on biodiversity, adopting a Water Energy Food Ecosystem (WEFE) 
Nexus approach and following methods of the circular economy 188. 
Actions are expected to cover the design, construct, commission and operate the 
demonstration installation, including aspects of energy needs and energy consumption, of grid 
stability and grid reinforcement in the region concerned. Actions should also develop and 
implement a tailored value chain approach, identifying the most suitable manufacturing value 
chains, on the basis of the local context, local material supply chain(s) and local workforce, 
with the objective of ensuring sustainable local economic development. A gender sensitive 
approach could further support the activities, taking into account relevant groups in a 
vulnerable situation such as rural communities, and women. 
African SMEs are expected to play an important role in the overall value chain and to 
contribute in the identifying the needs. Participation of EU private sector actors should also be 
encouraged in alignment with the priorities of Global Gateway Strategy. Actions should also 
include the identification of technical, vocational and educational needs of the workforce and 
propose relevant training and qualification activities. Actions should finally define a market 
and business strategy that could take into consideration funding from European and 
international financial instruments and development finance programmes to ensure impact 
through a quick and viable commercial take-up of the technological solution demonstrated. 
Social innovation should be considered. The business plan is expected to include appropriate 
consideration of available financial support instruments (local, regional and/or international) 
to enhance the speedy market deployment of the solution. The aspects of regulatory 
environment and local communities’ governance needs and/or impacts are also to be 
considered. 
Proposals are expected to include a life cycle analysis showing the impact of the proposed 
solutions when compared to other technologies/solutions on the environment, on climate 
change targets and on the social and the economic dimensions, taking a cradle to grave 
viewpoint, encompassing the design and the operation phases. The life cycle analysis should 
take a cradle to grave approach. Proposals should adopt a circular economy approach. 
Whenever negative impacts have been identified, mitigations measures are expected. 
As the demonstration installation will be located in Africa, relevant African partners have to 
participate in the implementation of the project. A balanced involvement in the activities of 
the projects of European and African partners will be considered an asset in the evaluation. 
Actions should also participate in and contribute to the African Union 189 - European Union 
collaborative research action on Climate Change and Sustainable Energy, in particular 
 
through cooperation/collaboration with the project LEAP -SE ( www.leap-re.eu). Alignment 
with Global Gateway ongoing activities on renewable energy in Africa should be also 
prioritized, including the collaboration with EU Delegation and EU private sector actors in 
Africa, as well as with the Partnership on Food and Nutrition Security and Sustainable 
Agriculture (FNSSA) and Cluster 6’s topic HORIZON -CL6-2027-02-FARM2FORK-02-two-
stage. 
Lesson learned from the implementation of European Renewable Energy Valleys projects 
should be considered. These projects are REFORMERS190 and CRETE VALLEY191. 
Proven access to necessary land and / or permits for operation at the time of application and / 
or convincing risk management regarding delayed availability of land or permits are expected 
in the proposal.