HORIZON-CL5-2027-03-D5-04: Demonstration of zero emission coaches and buses in 
long distance operations (2ZERO Partnership) 
Call: MOBILITY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
13.50 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 13.50 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility conditions The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, 
navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must 
make use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and 
services may additionally be used). 
 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 7-8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Integration of the results of the demonstrations in regular operation of passenger 
transport operators, in long distance operations. Accelerated replication of this 
integration, beyond original demo partners, using specific recommendations and sharing 
of best practices 
• Reliable operation of long distance zero emission buses and coaches in the EU. 
• Improved comfort and inter-modality for long distance people mobility services. 
• Demonstrated innovative zero emission solutions for long distance people mobility in a 
holistic approach taking net congestions challenges and charging solutions into account.   
Scope: Zero emission buses for urban and sub -urban use are successfully implemented in 
Europe. This has addressed the need to improve air quality, reduce noise and innovate people 
mobility. Yet there are limitations due to range, vehicle weight and available charging 
infrastructure to further extend zero emission vehicles in more energy demanding long -
distance (ranging from regional, national to transnational) people mobility that needs to be 
addressed. There is a need to further develop zero -emission solutions where vehicle weight 
and energy demand are challenges.  
Proposed actions are expected to address all of the following aspects: 
• Develop sustainable and affordable, long -distance zero emission people mobility 
solutions for different areas and regions with new and viable business cases based on 
new operation models and smart management of fleets and of coaches and buses. 
• Test and apply concepts, tools and models with direct involvement of European 
bus/coach providers and operators to speed up deployment. Include the transition from 
long-distance to urban, in intermodal hubs and with park-and ride. 
• Demonstrate using at least 5 coaches and buses in several operational routes in the EU 
and/or in corridors segments in different Member States and/or Associated Countries, 
focussing on long -distance operation patterns (average ≥500 km in extra -urban 
scenarios, in one or more routing). 
• Demonstrations must cover aspects such as planning, optimised charging/refuelling 
schedules, passenger experience, driving time regulations, cross -border trips, charging 
solutions and impacts on the grid. Replication, recommendations and sharing of best 
practices shall be part of the demonstrations, as well as the development of new business 
models and the analysis of remaining legal barriers. 
• Develop shared charging solutions that can be used for multiple operators and other 
vehicle types. Both technical and operational issues must be addressed, as well as “rush 
hour” at charging stations, balancing demand and supply of energy. The use of charging 
solutions and shared charging hubs by a variety of mobility and transport operators must 
be explored, also incorporating seasonal effects and operational demands. 
• Based on user needs, develop flexibility in interior design to enhance travel comfort, 
safety and user experience, thus aiming at making it more appealing and inclusive to use 
this mode of transport.  
• Leverage on other 2Zero projects related to Buses and HDV should be considered.246  
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on ‘Towards zero emission 
road transport’ (2ZERO). As such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected to report 
on the results to the European Partnership ‘Towards zero emission road transport’ (2ZERO) in 
support of the monitoring of its KPIs.