HORIZON-CL3-2027-01-INFRA-02: Impact of malicious use of Open -Source 
Intelligence on critical infrastructure business continuity 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2027 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
3.835 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 7.67 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
The following additional eligibility conditions apply: 
This topic requires involvement as beneficiaries of at least 3 relevant 
practitioners from EU Member States or Associated Countries. 
Depending on the specific proposal submitted, these practitioners should 
represent one or several of the following portfolios: 
• critical infrastructure operator, 
• authority responsible for critical infrastructure resilience, 
• law enforcement or private companies providing security for 
critical infrastructure. 
For these participants, applicants must fill in the table “Information 
about security practitioners” in the application form with all the 
requested information, following the template provided in the 
submission IT tool. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 8 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 106. 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to some or all of the following 
outcomes: 
• Critical infrastructure operators and authorities have improved awareness of Open -
Source Intelligence (OSINT) and their potential impact on security of their operations; 
• Toolbox for OSINT mapping, including enhanced analysis and risk flagging is 
developed and available to relevant stakeholders; 
• Critical infrastructure operators and authorities have improved incident response, 
emergency plans and business continuity models; 
 
• Removal of potentially harmful OSINT from the public domain in order to 
counter/prevent preparations and attempted attacks against critical entities, including the 
lone wolf and hybrid scenarios; 
• Awareness campaigns and training curricula for critical entities’ employees are 
developed.   
Scope: The malicious use of Open -Source Intelligence (OSINT) is a known concern and 
technique used by offenders to retrieve personal, professional, and official or technical 
information about entities and their employees either to immediately plot illegal actions or use 
it to access more sensitive data with social engineering techniques like tailored data phishing. 
Although singular information may seem harmless, their critical mass coupled with reasoning 
and automated processing of large data blocks, could reveal critical vulnerabilities and 
possible attack vectors. This modus operandi is of special concern for critical infrastructure 
operators and authorities, as it can be used to aggregate sensitive information, identify 
potential protection gaps, discover the security measures, such as camera and sensor locations 
or target individuals with special access privileges in order to orchestrate more sophisticated 
and harmful attacks. OSINT can also be used to impede critical infrastructure operations 
indirectly, gathering information and affecting their supply chains. 
Proposals submitted under this topic should analyse the type, amount and accessibility of 
publicly available information and their usefulness in planning hostile operations against 
critical entities and their services. They should also parse the role of OSINT for identification 
and recruitment of insiders, identity theft, impersonation, or launching psychological 
operations such as foreign information manipulation and interference or disinformation. 
Moreover, the implications of AI data processing to misuse OSINT potential should be 
addressed. Any potential OSINT sources should be covered including, but not limited to 
social media, online fora, cloud resources, public records and databases, lawfully accessible 
deep web and dark web data, geospatial information, as well as paper archives in the public 
domain with blueprints, emergency response plans or similar. Proposals should especially 
consider scenarios including hybrid threats and lone wolves and develop tools and awareness 
campaigns to mitigate such threats. 
Proposals should build upon outcomes and tools of other relevant projects, adapting, 
optimising and integrating them when necessary to achieve the highest possible technology 
readiness level of the project results. The proposals funded under this topic are expected to 
engage with the Europol Innovation Lab during the lifetime of the project, including 
validating the outcomes, with the aim of facilitating future uptake of innovations for the law 
enforcement community. 
In this topic the integration of the gender dimension (sex and gender analysis) in research and 
innovation content should be addressed only if relevant in relation to the objectives of the 
research effort. 
Destination - Cybersecurity 
Cybersecurity is essential for safeguarding Europe’s digital sovereignty, resilience, and 
technological leadership. The Horizon Europe Work Programme for Cybersecurity 2026-2027 
builds on the broader EU strategic vision for cybersecurity as articulated in the EU 
Cybersecurity Strategy for the Digital Decade and contributes directly to the implementation 
of major initiatives including the Cyber Resilience Act, NIS2 Directive, Cyber Solidarity Act, 
AI Act, and the EU Quantum Strategy. It complements the deployment -focused Digital 
Europe Cybersecurity Programme, ensuring continuity from research and innovation to 
operational capability across the cybersecurity ecosystem. 
The Cybersecurity actions proposed under this destination as described in the Annexes, are 
designed to reinforce the EU’s ability to detect, prevent, and respond to cyber threats, 
including those targeting critical infrastructure. Furthermore, they contribute to Europe's open 
strategic autonomy by supporting the development of trustworthy digital infrastructures, 
emerging technologies, cybersecurity capabilities, and secure supply chains. 
The strategic plan 2025 -2027 identifies the following impact: "Increased cybersecurity and a 
more secure online environment by developing and using effectively EU and Member States’ 
capabilities in digital technologies supporting protection of data and networks aspiring to 
technological sovereignty in this field, while respecting privacy and other fundamental rights; 
this should contribute to secure services, processes and products, as well as to robust digital 
infrastructures capable to resist and counter cyber-attacks and hybrid threats". 
Under this Work Programme, the Commission intends to conclude a contribution agreement 
entrusting the European Cybersecurity Competence Centre (ECCC) with the implementation 
of call topics related to Increased Cybersecurity. Please refer to "Indirectly managed action by 
the ECCC" in the section "Other Actions" of this Work Programme part – including the 
Appendix providing the call specifications for information purposes. Those specifications 
incorporate ‘expected outcomes’ set out below. 
Legal entities established in China are not eligible to participate in both Research and 
Innovation Actions (RIAs) and Innovation Actions (IAs) falling under this destination. For 
additional information please see “Restrictions on the participation of legal entities 
established in China” found in General Annex B of the General Annexes. 
