HORIZON-CL3-2026-01-DRS-03: Development of innovative tools, processes, 
equipment and technologies through responses to disasters and emergencies for search 
and rescue in hazardous conditions 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 8.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
 
Due to the scope of this topic, relevant international organisations with 
headquarters in a Member State or Horizon Europe Associated Country 
are exceptionally eligible for funding. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: 
This topic requires the active involvement, as beneficiaries, of at least 2 
practitioner organisations (first responders) and 2 medical emergency 
authorities from at least 3 different EU Member States or Associated 
Countries. 
For these participants, applicants must fill in the table “Information 
about security practitioners” in the application form with all the 
requested information, following the template provided in the 
submission IT tool. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 7 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 121. 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to some or all  of the following 
expected outcomes: 
 
• Creation of cutting -edge tools, processes, equipment and technologies to enhance 
disaster and emergency response capabilities for various practitioners as well as for 
assets, such as vehicles, aircraft, and heavy equipment; 
• Taking into consideration existing technologies, development of autonomous drones, 
robotics, and other technologies specifically designed for emergency medical response 
and search and rescue operations in hazardous conditions such as wildfires, earthquakes 
and large-scale events; 
• Improvement of response efficiency and safety for survivors and emergency 
practitioners through the adoption of advanced, technology -driven solutions in disaster 
scenarios; 
• Consider needs of existing EU -level capacities, emergency reserves, and stockpiling in 
the deployment of the assets and being able to move them.  
Scope: The scope of this topic is the development of innovative tools, equipment, and 
technologies to enhance the capabilities of emergency responders operating in complex and 
hazardous disaster environments. By leveraging advancements in smart protective equipment, 
in robotics, autonomous systems, remote sensing, communication and human sensor 
technologies, the aim is to improve the efficiency, safety, and effectiveness of emergency 
medical response and search and rescue operations, particularly in high-risk scenarios, such as 
wildfires, earthquakes and large-scale trauma events. 
Proposals should explore the design, testing, and validation of innovative solutions capable of 
performing critical tasks in disaster -stricken areas. These technologies should be tailored to 
operate in extreme conditions, including high temperatures, unstable terrains, and low -
visibility environments and beneficial to all individuals regardless of their age, gender or 
ability. Research should address challenges related to autonomous navigation, AI -driven 
decision-making, real -time situational awareness, and seamless integration with existing 
command-and-control systems used by disaster management. Collaboration of different 
practitioners should be supported to support proper market uptake. 
Efforts should be made to enhance interoperability and data -sharing capabilities between 
various platforms, emergency response teams, and crisis management systems. A key aspect 
of this research should be the practical deployment and validation of these technologies 
through field exercises and simulations in real -world disaster scenarios. User -driven design 
approaches, prioritising inclusivity and accessibilities should ensure that developed solutions 
align with the operational needs of responders in disasters., Proposals should develop a 
command-and-control solution that allows organisation of all activities, ensuring a swift, 
coordinated, and effective response to any disaster with clear plan for uptake after the project. 
Projects should conduct a stakeholder or market analysis and a roadmap or plan for uptake of 
the developed methodologies, findings, and technologies to the industry, the research and 
innovation community, and the relevant authorities. The current response capacities of the 
European Civil Protection Pool 122 its capacity gaps 123, and the rescEU strategic reserve 124 as 
well as the EU Stockpiling Strategy should be taken into account in the roadmap to ensure 
needs-based approach. Thus, the proposals could consider innovation for heavier assets, such 
as flood containment and high -capacity pumping, transport or response aircraft, shelters and 
power generators, ground firefighting vehicles and aerial firefighting helicopters. 
Furthermore, proposals should consider ethical, legal, and social implications associated with 
the deployment of autonomous technologies in emergency response. Issues such as data 
privacy, cybersecurity, human- and animal life protection, public acceptance, and compliance 
with regulatory frameworks should be addressed to facilitate the responsible and effective use 
of these innovations. 
Projects should contribute to strengthening Europe’s disaster response capacity by equipping 
practitioners with state -of-the-art technological solutions that enhance their ability to operate 
safely and efficiently in life -threatening environments. Alignment with EU policies and 
international best practices should be ensured to maximize the scalability and real -world 
applicability of the developed solutions. The Preparedness Union Strategy is a key document 
in this regard. Finding synergies with projects from operational grants, such as the Knowledge 
for Action in Prevention & Preparedness (KAPP)125, is recommended.