HORIZON-CL3-2027-01-FCT-05: Effective and evidence -based responses to the 
increased availability and use of synthetic drugs and stimulants in Europe 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2027 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 8.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: 
This topic requires the active involvement, as beneficiaries, of at least 3 
Police Authorities57 and at least 2 Civil Society Organisations (or Non -
 
Governmental Organisations) from at least 3 different EU Member 
States or Associated Countries. For these participants, applicants must 
fill in the table “Information about security practitioners” in the 
application form with all the requested information, following the 
template provided in the submission IT tool. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 58. 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to  all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Evidence base is improved for effective prevention, treatment and harm reduction of 
synthetic drugs and stimulants in Europe; 
• Relevant European security practitioners, notably Police Authorities, Civil Society 
Organisations and Non-Governmental Organisations, are equipped with skills, tools and 
technology aimed at reducing the violence and offences associated with use and 
 
marketing of these substances, as well as at combatting drug trafficking from its origin to 
destination (i.e., through the entire supply chain); 
• Increased understanding of relevant European security practitioners and policymakers 
regarding the influence of external drivers of change of societal, technological, legal, 
economic and ethical nature to the availability and use of different types of synthetic 
drugs and drug markets.   
Scope: This topic asks for proposals that seek to develop effective and evidence -based 
responses to the growing prevalence of synthetic drugs and stimulants, such as cocaine and 
crack cocaine, within the EU. As these substances increasingly influence the drug landscape, 
the urgent need for enhanced understanding and strategies in their prevention, treatment, and 
harm reduction has never been clearer. Amongst other, there is also a lack of pharmacological 
data for the emerging drugs, needed to do proper risk assessments and interventions of these 
drugs in Europe. Key focus areas include: 
• Evidence-based approaches, strengthening the evidence base to inform effective 
prevention strategies, treatment modalities, and harm reduction practices targeted at 
synthetic drugs and stimulants. This includes identifying best practices in current 
interventions and evaluating their efficacy. 
• Reducing violence and offending exploring strategies to mitigate the violence and 
criminal behaviour associated with the use and marketing of synthetic drugs. This 
involves understanding the socio -economic and cultural factors, including the gender, 
age, or other social factors, that contribute to these phenomena and proposing targeted 
interventions. 
• Improving technologies and tools to combat drug trafficking from its origin to 
destination (i.e., through the entire supply chain). 
• External drivers of change, analysing the impact of geopolitical situations, legal 
frameworks, and societal factors on the availability and consumption of various drugs, 
and addressing how international crises affect organised crime and drug markets in the 
EU. This includes investigating the repercussions of global developments on local drug 
dynamics and identifying adaptive response strategies.  
In light of the underdeveloped evidence base surrounding synthetic drugs, proposals should 
aim to foster collaboration among researchers, policymakers, and security practitioners to 
create a comprehensive and effective response to this pressing issue in Europe, previous 
research, including but not limited to research by other Framework Programmes’ projects. 
Coordination among the successful proposals from this topic should be envisaged to avoid 
duplication and to exploit complementarities as well as opportunities for increased impact. To 
ensure the active involvement of and timely feedback from relevant security practitioners, 
proposals should plan a mid -term deliverable consisting in the assessment of the project’s 
mid-term outcomes, performed by the practitioners involved in the project. 
Activities proposed within this topic should address, in a balanced way, both technological 
and societal dimensions of the issue under consideration. The proposals funded under this 
topic are expected to engage with the Europol Innovation Lab during the lifetime of the 
project, including validating the outcomes, with the aim of facilitating future uptake of 
innovations for the law enforcement community. Similarly, the proposals funded under this 
topic are expected to engage with the EU Drugs Agency during the lifetime of the project, 
including validating the outcomes. Finally, proposals are expected to address all applicable 
considerations expressed in the Introduction of the Fighting Crime and Terrorism Destination. 
