HORIZON-CL3-2027-01-DRS-01: Open Topic on advanced protective gear optimized 
for CBRN-E (Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, Explosives) environments and 
new generation of smart protective equipment for disaster responders 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2027 
Specific conditions 
 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
3.835 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 7.67 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: 
This topic requires the active involvement, as beneficiaries, of: 
• at least 2 Training Centres 135 located in EU Member States or 
Associated Countries, and 
• at least 2 practitioners involved in training, validation and testing 
of CBRN -E tools and technologies from at least 2 EU Member 
States or Associated Countries. 
For these participants, applicants must fill in the table “Information 
about security practitioners” in the application form with all the 
requested information, following the template provided in the 
submission IT tool. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 7 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 136. 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to some or all  of the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Developed of advanced protective gear specifically designed for optimal performance in 
Chemical or Biological or Radiological, and Nuclear or Explosives (CBRN -E) 
environments; 
• Created innovative smart protective equipment for disaster responders, incorporating 
advanced technologies to enhance safety and operational efficiency; 
• Improvement of protective solutions to ensure the safety and effectiveness of disaster 
responders operating in hazardous and high-risk environments.  
Scope: This topic aims to advance the development of protective gear specifically designed 
for optimal performance in specificities of the Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, 
and Explosives (CBRN-E) environments, along with the creation of a new generation of smart 
protective equipment for disaster responders. Projects should focus on the use of innovative 
materials, technologies, and design features that enhance the protective capabilities of gear 
used in high -risk, hazardous environments, ensuring the safety and well -being of disaster 
responders with an inclusive and user -centric approach. The integration of advanced 
technologies will be crucial to enhancing the operational efficiency and effectiveness of the 
equipment. 
Projects should conduct a stakeholder or market analysis and a roadmap or plan for uptake of 
the developed methodologies, findings, and technologies to the industry, the research and 
innovation community, and/or the relevant authorities. The current response capacities of the 
European Civil Protection Pool 137 and the rescEU strategic reserve 138 should be taken into 
account in the roadmap to ensure needs-based approach. 
Proposals should build upon existing research outputs, specifically under other Horizon 
Europe Cluster 4, and technologies to create smart, adaptive protective solutions that respond 
dynamically to evolving threats in CBRN -E scenarios. This includes the incorporation of 
features similar to automated hazard detection, environmental monitoring, and advanced 
 
communication systems to provide real-time situational awareness. The new gear should meet 
rigorous safety standards while improving the comfort, mobility, and usability of responders, 
enabling better performance and faster decision-making in demanding environments. 
Proposals should focus on providing comprehensive solutions that combine robust protection, 
operational support, and data -driven insights, ensuring a holistic approach to safety. 
Collaboration between research institutions, manufacturers, and end -users will be essential to 
ensure that the resulting products meet the practical requirements of practitioners in the field. 
The Preparedness Union Strategy is a key document in this regard. Analysing the capacity 
gaps of the UCPM 139 as well as finding synergies with the rescEU strategic reserve and 
projects from operational grants, such as the Knowledge for Action in Prevention & 
Preparedness (KAPP)140, is recommended.