HORIZON-CL3-2027-01-FCT-01: Online harms detection and investigation tools using 
a short development cycle model 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2027 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
7.833 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 7.83 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility conditions apply: 
This topic requires the active involvement, as beneficiaries, of at least 3 
Police Authorities 47  from at least 3 different EU Member States or 
Associated Countries. For these participants, applicants must fill in the 
table “Information about security practitioners” in the application form 
with all the requested information, following the template provided in 
the submission IT tool. 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 48. 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to  all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Police Authorities in Europe benefit from a rapid deployment of targeted detection and 
investigation tools and related training materials, specifically tailored to counter current, 
foreseeable and emerging online harms at the outset of each development cycle; 
• Police Authorities in Europe are provided with a flexible framework for adaptation via 
creation of a modular toolset that allows for the incorporation of new functionalities and 
updates based on the latest trends and threats in online harms; 
• Enhanced European stakeholder collaboration through facilitation of partnerships among 
researchers, policymakers, and Police Authorities in Europe to ensure that tools are not 
only effective but also user-friendly, legally and ethically sound.   
Scope: As the digital landscape continues to evolve, so too do the myriads of online harms 
that threaten citizens’ security and well -being. To address these challenges, we invite 
proposals for the development of detection and investigation tools that employ short 
development cycle models. This approach emphasizes agility and responsiveness, ensuring 
that tools can quickly adapt to emerging online threats, such as identity theft, disinformation, 
deepfakes, spoofing, phishing, digital violence, or, e.g., tools for an early detection as well as 
real-time monitoring and risk assessment that can identify potential fraudulent sales (“online 
payment fraud”) before they occur. 
This topic welcomes innovative ideas focused on creating efficient detection and investigation 
tools to combat varying forms of online harms, which should be selected at the beginning of 
every new development cycle, in agreement with all stakeholders involved in the consortia, 
especially including concrete needs of Police Authorities. The emphasis on short development 
cycles allows proposals to remain dynamic, responsive to the fast -paced nature of online 
threats, and capable of addressing both established issues and new challenges as they arise. 
Proposals should focus on the iterative process of tool development, integrating feedback 
from Police Authorities to ensure continuous improvement and relevance in combating online 
harms. Ultimately, the goal is to foster a proactive and effective response to safeguarding 
online spaces for all users, regardless of their gender identity or expression. 
Proposals are expected to provide ideas on how they would engage with the Europol 
Innovation Lab during the lifetime of the project. Furthermore, if the proposals concern drug -
related issues, they are expected to engage with the EU Drugs Agency during the lifetime of 
the project, including validating the outcomes. For aspects of training of Police Authorities, 
cooperation of successful proposals with CEPOL is expected, provided that the Agency opts 
out from applying for funding. To ensure the active involve ment of and timely feedback from 
relevant security practitioners, proposals should plan a mid -term deliverable consisting in the 
assessment of the project’s mid-term outcomes, performed by the practitioners involved in the 
project. Finally, proposals are expected to address all applicable considerations expressed in 
the Introduction of the Fighting Crime and Terrorism Destination. The project should have a 
minimum estimated duration of 48 months.