HORIZON-CL3-2026-01-BM-01: Advanced border surveillance and situational 
awareness 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: 
This topic requires the active involvement, as beneficiaries, of at least 2 
Border or Coast Guard Authorities from at least 2 different EU Member 
States or Associated countries. For these participants, applicants must 
fill in the table “Eligibility information about practitioners” in the 
application form with all the requested information, following the 
template provided in the submission IT tool. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -7 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 72. 
 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to some or all  of the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Improved detection, localization, characterization and, when applicable, neutralisation, 
of unmanned vehicles alone or in swarms, involved in trafficking or smuggling activities 
across external borders, while complying with legal and ethical guidelines; 
• Improved border situational awareness, especially in the context of large -scale 
movements of people across borders, including from potential instrumentalisation of 
irregular migration, conflicts, social, economic, environmental and climate stress; 
• Better safeguard and promotion of fundamental rights thanks to enhanced situational 
awareness; 
• Reliable, redundant detection and reaction capacities without putting staff and society at 
risk.   
Scope: Capabilities for situational awareness and surveillance of land and sea borders need 
improvement, in consideration of potential future challenges that may require updated 
capabilities. These challenges may include potential future large -scale movements of people 
across external borders, resulting from future attempts to instrumentalisation of irregular 
migration, but also from conflicts, social, economic, environmental and climate stress in the 
European neighbourhood; as well as increasing availability and capability of unmanned aerial, 
surface, and underwater vehicles with increased payload capacity and range that make it 
easier to transport goods and, possibly, persons, including in connection will illicit or illegal 
activities such as trafficking of goods and smuggling of people across external EU borders. 
These challenges will be particularly relevant in regions close to the European 
neighbourhood. 
This may be particularly relevant for unsupervised and difficult -to-control land and sea 
borders of the Union and the Schengen area. 
Research funded under this topic should develop solutions that, through better awareness, 
improve efficiency and reaction time of detection, search, rescue, and recovery operations 
near land and sea borders, in diverse geographical and meteorological conditions, taking into 
account the different and diverse needs. Research funded under this topic can also promote 
cross-border cooperation at European regional level around innovative border management 
solutions demonstration testbeds. 
Actions funded under this topic should develop solutions that go beyond state -of-the-art in 
clearly demonstrable ways, including measurable improvements in detection range, accuracy, 
response time, automation, and system resilience. 
Improved border surveillance and situational awareness must better safeguard and promote 
fundamental rights and EU values, with a particular regard to human rights, using an inclusive 
approach that addresses diverse needs. Solutions should also provide reliable and redundant 
capacities, while ensuring the safety of staff, users, and persons who may be victim of illicit 
activities across external borders. 
The EBCG Capability Roadmap recognises that future capabilities that help detect cross -
border irregularities and cases requiring Search and Rescue activities are essential. Solutions 
should be modular and scalable to cater to the regional and challenges specificities. 
Compatibility and integration with the European Border Surveillance System (EUROSUR) is 
essential, and compatibility and/or exploitation of other European information -sharing 
environments, like the Common Information Sharing Environment (CISE), would be an 
additional asset. 
Proposals should demonstrate that the proposed equipment and technologies contribute to cost 
reduction and energy efficiency of border surveillance and situational awareness operations. 
Proposals submitted under this topic are expected to address the priorities of the European 
Border and Coast Guard (ECBG) and of its Agency (Frontex). This should start from the 
definition of requirements and the design phase, including alignment with the EBCG 
Capability Roadmap and on the engagement with the Agency during the project 
implementation. At the proposal preparation stage, Frontex will not provide guidance on or 
otherwise be involved in the preparation of project proposals. However, proposals should 
consider and anticipate that Frontex may observe pilots and demonstrations during project 
implementation to facilitate the future uptake of innovations within the border and coast guard 
community. 
To ensure active involvement and timely feedback from relevant security practitioners, 
proposals should include a mid -term deliverable consisting of an assessment of the project’s 
mid-term outcomes, conducted by the practitioners involved in the project.