HORIZON-CL3-2026-01-INFRA-01: Tools and processes to support stress tests of 
critical infrastructure 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
4.835 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 9.67 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or as 
an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
The following additional eligibility conditions apply: 
This topic requires involvement as beneficiaries of at least 3 relevant 
practitioners from EU Member States or Associated Countries. 
Depending on the specific proposal submitted, these practitioners should 
represent one or several of the following portfolios: 
• critical infrastructure operator, 
• authority responsible for critical infrastructure resilience, 
• civil protection authority, 
• law enforcement or private companies providing security for 
critical infrastructure. 
For these participants, applicants must fill in the table “Information 
about security practitioners” in the application form with all the 
requested information, following the template provided in the 
submission IT tool. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -7 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 101. 
Security Sensitive Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
 
Topics background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to some or all of the following 
outcomes: 
• Critical infrastructure operators and authorities have access to efficient, adaptable, 
resilient and reliable tools and processes enabling or improving virtual and physical 
stress tests of their respective assets/ and operations; 
• Critical entities have broader and deeper understanding of their technical and operational 
vulnerabilities and adaptive capabilities, improving the scenario building and stress tests 
exercises; 
• Systems allowing notification and collaboration under stress conditions are available for 
relevant stakeholders; 
• Critical entities are better equipped for post -incident investigations, including data 
collection, analysis and improved learning, management and sharing in a secure manner; 
• Improved operational procedures including incidents management and training curricula 
are developed.   
Scope: The resilience of critical entities is of paramount importance as disruptions to these 
systems can have significant consequences for the whole economy, public health, security or 
safety. These systems, responsible for providing essential services for modern society, are 
increasingly complex and interconnected, making them vulnerable to a range of threats, 
including cyber-attacks, physical attacks, malfunctions, human-induced or natural disasters. 
The objective of this topic is to facilitate the stress testing of critical infrastructure by 
providing specialized tools and methodologies and support validation. This will enable the 
identification and testing of technical and operational vulnerabilities, inform of effective 
solutions to mitigate these risks, and facilitate the collection and analysis of data to enhance 
resilience plans that shall be established by each critical entity. Building on the insights 
gained from previous exercises, the ultimate goal is to establish more robust and 
comprehensive stress testing protocols, thereby ensuring the reliability and integrity of critical 
infrastructure. 
The proposed solutions may, among others, support simulation and modelling, multi -hazard 
and multi -threat scenario building, data analytics, including geospatial information, Digital 
Twins, assessment of risks and adaptive capabilities, as well as impact of human factors. 
These solutions should be designed to be inclusive and accessible, considering the needs of 
diverse users and stakeholders. Solutions should allow flexible configuration taking into 
account the evolving nature of threats and hazards. If feasible they should also be adaptable to 
different sectors and should support stress testing under diverse environmental and 
geographical conditions, including operation in harsh and remote environments. Moreover, 
they should comply with the relevant legislative frameworks and allow application of the 
developed tools under the current regime taking into account the sensitivity and 
confidentiality of the processed information. 
Coordination among the successful proposals from this topic and projects funded under 
HORIZON-CL3-2025-01-INFRA-01: Open topic for improved preparedness for, response to 
and recovery from large -scale disruptions of critical infrastructures  and HORIZON -CL3-
2025-01-INFRA-02: Open topic for role of the human factor for resilience of European 
critical entities, should be envisaged in order to avoid duplication, share resources and exploit 
complementarities and opportunities for increased impact. 
In this topic the integration of the gender dimension (sex and gender analysis) in research and 
innovation content should be addressed only if relevant in relation to the objectives of the 
research effort. 
Where relevant, funded projects are encouraged to liaise with the European Commission's 
Joint Research Centre, for complementary real-scale testing at the Reaction Wall and HopLab 
of the European Laboratory for Structural Assessment (ELSA).