HORIZON-CL3-2026-01-DRS-04: Open topic on driving innovation uptake of disaster 
risk solutions 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 3.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 6.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: 
This topic requires the active involvement, as beneficiaries, of at least 3 
first responders or authorities in charge of disaster risk 126 from at least 3 
different EU Member States or Associated Countries. 
For these participants, applicants must fill in the table “Information 
about security practitioners” in the application form with all the 
requested information, following the template provided in the 
submission IT tool. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 8 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 127. 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to some or all  of the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Accelerated adoption of high -TRL (Technology Readiness Level) disaster risk solutions 
across diverse sectors; 
• Facilitated integration of innovative technologies into existing disaster prevention, 
preparedness, response, and recovery frameworks; 
• Promoted collaboration among stakeholders to scale proven solutions and enhance 
resilience; 
• Addressed barriers to deployment, ensuring accessibility and usability of advanced DRS 
technologies; 
• Strengthened evidence-based decision-making through demonstration and validation of 
high-TRL solutions in real-world scenarios;  
• Promoted visibility of civil security research results.   
Scope: This topic aims to foster the widespread adoption and integration of high -TRL 
(Technology Readiness Level) disaster risk solutions (DRS) across multiple sectors, 
enhancing societal resilience to various hazards, including climate. The focus is on 
overcoming barriers to deployment, ensuring accessibility, and strengthening collaboration 
among stakeholders to drive innovation uptake. Projects should promote the adoption of high -
TRL solutions by public and private sector organizations involved in disaster risk 
management, developing strategies for scaling and commercializing innovative DRS 
technologies to ensure they reach end -users efficiently. They should also demonstrate how 
these technologies can complement or replace existing disaster preparedness, response, and 
recovery frameworks by developing integrated governance and coordination models across 
sectors and levels for disaster preparedness, response, and recovery in multi -hazard and 
cascading risk scenario interoperability standards, and guidelines for integrating new solutions 
into national and European civil protection systems. The project should especially liaise and 
support other disaster resilience projects in driving their uptake as well as examine how to 
build synergy pathways with other preparedness grants, such as Knowledge for Action in 
Prevention & Preparedness (KAPP) funding call of the Union Civil Protection Mechanism 
(UCPM). 
Addressing deployment barriers is crucial, including identifying and mitigating technical, 
regulatory, financial, and social obstacles hindering the uptake of advanced solutions, while 
ensuring accessibility and usability for diverse stakeholders such as first responders, local 
authorities, and communities and individuals in a vulnerable situation. Projects should also 
demonstrate the real -world effectiveness of high -TRL solutions through large -scale pilot 
projects and demonstrations, generating robust evid ence to support data -driven decision -
making and optimize disaster risk reduction strategies. Initiatives should consider the capacity 
gaps of the UCPM 128, align with EU disaster resilience objectives and build on existing 
programs, ensuring synergies with relevant policies, funding mechanisms, and technological 
ecosystems. The private -public cooperation chapter of the Preparedness Union Strategy 
should especially be a guiding document. Proposals are encouraged to incorporate digital 
tools, AI-driven analytics, digital twins such as Destination Earth, IoT applications, and other 
emerging technologies to enhance disaster preparedness and response. 
Proposals should have a strategy to promote the visibility of the project and the results to the 
broader public in order to show the potential of European civil security research (political 
sphere, private sector, citizens). This could entail the European Civil Protection Forum and 
the European Commission Disaster Risk Management Knowledge Centre platform as 
examples. 
In this topic the integration of the gender dimension (sex and gender analysis) in research and 
innovation content should be addressed only if relevant in relation to the objectives of the 
research effort.