HORIZON-CL3-2027-01-DRS-02: Societal resilience, engagement of the younger 
generations and digital innovation for disaster resilience 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2027 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 3.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 6.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: 
This topic requires the active involvement, as beneficiaries, of at least 2 
Civil Society Organisation (CSO) and 2 NGOs representing young 
people or youth organisations from at least 3 different EU Member 
States or Associated Countries. For these participants, applicants must 
fill in the table “Information about security practitioners” in the 
application form with all the requested information, following the 
template provided in the submission IT tool. 
 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 5 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 141. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to some or all  of the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Developed a tailored education programs for younger generations, incorporating digital 
tools and gamification to enhance disaster awareness and engagement; 
• Strengthened societal resilience by actively involving younger generations, citizens, and 
local authorities in disaster preparedness and response initiatives; 
• Promoted collaborative research that integrates youth perspectives and community 
involvement, fostering a more resilient society in the face of disasters and crises; 
• Enhanced resilience and behaviour of children, young people, and other groups in a 
vulnerable situation before, during, and after climate -related disasters and health 
emergencies; 
• Training and education tools to engage young people and other populations a vulnerable 
situation in preparedness and crisis management.  
Scope: This topic focuses on enhancing societal resilience by actively engaging younger 
generations in disaster preparedness, response, and recovery through digital innovation, 
education, and community involvement. Projects should develop tailored innovative solutions 
 
that integrate digital tools, gamification, and interactive learning methods to improve disaster 
awareness, risk perception, and response capabilities among younger generations. These 
initiatives should empower younger generations 142 , to become active contributors to 
resilience-building efforts, equipping them with the knowledge and leadership skills. 
Particular attention should be given to the behaviour of children, young people, and other 
groups in a vulnerable situation before, during, and after climate -related disasters and health 
emergencies. Participatory approaches, including youth -led initiatives, citizen science, and 
digital engagement platforms, should be prioritized to enhance community -based resilience 
and ensure young people’s perspectives are integrated into decision -making processes. These 
approaches should follow an intersectional approach that gives credit to the (growing) 
heterogeneity of young people. Best practices from other programmes should be taken into 
account. 
Proposals should also focus on leveraging emerging technologies - such as artificial 
intelligence, virtual and augmented reality, social media analytics, and serious games - to 
engage young people in disaster preparedness and crisis response. Additionally, innovative 
communication strategies should be explored to enhance youth participation, particularly 
through digital technologies and social media. Practical examples, including pilots and real -
world case studies, should be developed to test and refine these approaches. 
Proposals should explore methods to interconnect young people’s data with crisis 
management teams, practitioners, and authorities, ensuring that their contributions are 
effectively integrated into emergency response frameworks. Training and education tools 
should be designed to engage young people and other vulnerable populations in preparedness 
and crisis management, promoting long-term resilience. 
Projects should conduct a stakeholder or market analysis and a roadmap or plan for uptake of 
the developed methodologies, findings, and technologies to the industry, the research and 
innovation community, and/or the relevant authorities. 
The support and involvement of citizens and civil society is central to achieving the targeted 
outcomes. 
By fostering collaborative research and youth -driven initiatives, projects should contribute to 
innovative and inclusive resilience strategies that align with EU policies on disaster risk 
reduction, education, digital transformation, and civil protection. Proposals should ensure 
synergies with existing initiatives and frameworks, such as the Preparedness Union Strategy’s 
chapter on population preparedness, Erasmus+ and the European Solidarity Corps, as well as 
the Sendai Disaster Risk Reduction Framework. Finding synergies with projects from 
 
operational grants, such as the Knowledge for Action in Prevention & Preparedness 
(KAPP)143, is recommend.