HORIZON-CL3-2027-01-SSRI-01: Accelerating uptake through open proposals for 
advanced SME innovation 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2027 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 1.50 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 4.50 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are directly 
or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established in China 
are not eligible to participate in the action. 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
The following additional eligibility conditions apply: 
Consortia must include, as beneficiaries: 
- A minimum of three (3) to a maximum of seven (7) partners. 
- At least 2 SMEs170 from 2 different Member States. 
- At least 1 end -user organisation in the areas addressed by the proposal, 
namely one of the following options: 
• Option A "Fighting Organised Crime and Terrorism’’ 
 
• Option B ‘"Disaster-Resilient Society’’ 
• Option C "Resilient Infrastructure’’ and 
• Option D ‘"Border Management’’. 
Participation of non -SME industries and Research and Technology 
Organisations (RTOs) is not excluded, but it must be limited to 15% of 
the proposed budget. 
At least 50% of the proposed budget must be allocated to SMEs. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6-8 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible proposals submitted under this topic and exceeding all the 
evaluation thresholds will be awarded a STEP Seal [ https://strategic-
technologies.europa.eu/about/step-seal_en]. 
Legal and 
financial set-up 
of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, as 
set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the Decision 
of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions under the 
Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for Research 
and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the Research and 
Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy Community (2021 -
2025) 171. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to some or all  of the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Development of a mature technological solution addressing EU security policy priorities 
in the areas addressed by the Cluster 3 work programme and in particular the destination 
 
of fighting crime and terrorism, disaster resilient societies, border management and 
resilient infrastructure; 
• Facilitate increased and sustained collaboration between small and medium -sized 
enterprises (SMEs), public research partners, and academia, leading to improved 
knowledge transfer within the European innovative SME ecosystem; 
• Mitigate difficulties in access to finance and new international markets, thereby 
enhancing the growth and expansion of European innovative SMEs.  
Scope: Europe’s 25 million small and medium enterprises (SMEs) are the backbone of the EU 
economy. SMEs can bring innovation to societal challenges, including the security of EU 
citizens. Innovative SMEs and high -tech start-ups can transform and modernise EU security 
capabilities. 
However, despite the innovation capacity of EU SMEs, these often experience difficulties in 
finding their way to the public markets. These include red tape in public contracts, access to 
new customers, access to finance, industrial competition and Intellectual Property (IP) 
valorisation. These difficulties are exacerbated in markets that show restrictions of different 
kind, as it is the case of security. 
Knowing that SMEs require additional support to reach the security buyers and that the 
collaboration opportunities offered by the projects of the Pillar II of Horizon Europe can be a 
catalyst for uptake, this topic aims to offer a collaborative environment for small and medium 
innovators to tailor their innovations to the specific needs of civil security end -users, taking 
into account the urge to address the diverse needs of all citizens, regardless of gender, age or 
ability. 
Applicants are invited to submit proposals for technology development along with the 
following principles: 
• Focus on mature technological solutions addressing EU security policy priorities in the 
areas addressed by the Cluster 3 Work Programme; 
• Fostering collaboration between SMEs from different Member States and Associated 
Countries; 
• Involving security end -users in the role of validator and potential first -adopter of the 
proposed innovations; 
• Fostering collaboration schemes between small companies and research and technology 
organisations and/or big industrial players aimed at fostering innovative technology 
transfer or creating innovative business models that facilitate access to market and 
strengthen the innovation capacity of EU SMEs and start -ups in the domain of civil 
security.  
Examples of activities to plan in the proposed projects include, but are not limited to: 
assimilating market requirements; facilitating access to additional funding; approaching 
potential public buyers; assess competitive landscape; supporting in innovation management 
(methodological and process innovation, business model innovation, market innovation); 
assist in IP management and exploitation; provide guidance for expansion to future markets, 
etc. 
The participation of research and technology organisations should not focus on own 
technology development but on supporting the small industrial players in accelerating the 
technology transfer of innovative security solutions for their further development and 
production. 
It is encouraged that one SME takes the coordinator role 172. If the coordinator is not an SME, 
this should be duly justified. 
The projects should have a maximum estimated duration of 2 years. 
Under this topic, projects should address one of the following areas addressed by the Cluster 3 
work programme: Fighting Crime and Terrorism (FCT, Option A), Disaster -Resilient Society 
(DRS, Option B), Resilient Infrastructure (INFRA, Option C), Border Management (BM, 
Option D). 
Some (indicative and non-exhaustive) examples of domains that could be addressed under the 
FCT area are: mobile forensics; deepfake detection; detection of counterfeiting (fake items, 
fake currency bills) or falsified/forged documents (passports, ID cards); detection and 
countering of advanced forms of malware, as well as non -cash payment frauds and other 
cyber-scams. 
Some (indicative and non-exhaustive) examples of domains that could be addressed under the 
DRS area are: data and satellite/remote sensing information exploitation, positioning and 
localisation tracking and tracing, monitoring and surveillance for disaster prevention. 
Some (indicative and non-exhaustive) examples of domains that could be addressed under the 
INFRA area are: physical access control, autonomous systems used for infrastructure 
protection, positioning and localisation tracking and tracing, monitoring and surveillance of 
environments and activities. 
Some (indicative and non-exhaustive) examples of domains that could be addressed under the 
BM area are: facilitated border checks; secure documents and identity management for border 
crossings; border surveillance; detection of drugs, explosives, Chemical, Biological, 
Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN), weapons and/or other dangerous materials in customs 
environment; detection of stolen, smuggled, illicit or illegal goods (cigarettes, art, cultural 
goods, wildlife) in a customs environment. 
 
Where relevant, proposals are invited to consider legal aspects to support the 
operationalization, policy integration, and institutional transformation of security solutions. 
This might include, for instance, the design of legal, policy, and/or standardization pathways 
to support the operational uptake of security solutions. 
This topic contributes to the Strategic Technologies for Europe Platform (STEP 173 ) and 
addresses civil security technologies falling under the sectors of “Digital technologies and 
deep-tech innovation” 174 . This topic contributes to the objectives stated in the STEP 
Regulation, e.g., to support the European industry and boost investment in critical 
technologies in Europe, and, to contribute to reducing or preventing the strategic 
dependencies of the Union. 
Finally, proposals are expected to address all applicable considerations expressed in the 
Introduction of the Strengthened Security Research and Innovation Destination.