HORIZON-CL3-2026-01-FCT-01: Improving capabilities of law enforcement to counter 
climate-related challenges 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
 
project Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 8.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: 
This topic requires the active involvement, as beneficiaries, of at least 2 
Police Authorities 32  from at least 2 different EU Member States or 
Associated Countries. For these participants, applicants must fill in the 
table “Information about security practitioners” in the application form 
with all the requested information, following the template provided in 
the submission IT tool. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 5 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 33. 
Security Sensitive Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
 
Topics background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to some or all  of the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Police Authorities in Europe are equipped with specialised skills and technologies to 
counter an increase in illegal activities related to the climate change and the emergence 
of new (opportunistic) criminal patterns; 
• Improved understanding by policymakers of the effects of climate change on law 
enforcement with a view of developing related effective European policies; 
• improved knowledge of the impacts of climate change phenomena on social dynamics 
which can raise demands from public authorities to keep public order, moving beyond 
traditional perspectives about crime and terrorism.  
Scope: Global climate change is a megatrend expected to affect our societies over the next 
decade. As stated in “Germany: National interdisciplinary climate risk assessment”34, “We are 
already living in the climate crisis. This brings substantial security risks at global and national 
levels. (...) Anyone thinking about security needs to think about climate as well”. 
Climate change will affect European law enforcement in various ways 35, 36. Notably, it is 
likely to create new opportunities and resources for organised crime, challenging current 
security frameworks. One of the expected outcomes of climate change will be the emergence 
of scarcity markets. Links between resource scarcity propelled by climate change and the 
crime opportunities for organised crime groups need to be further analysed. Criminal 
networks will aim to dominate the scarcity markets, increasing their role in the distribution of 
essential goods and services such as food and water. In addition, criminal networks will 
facilitate the movement of migrants, including women and children, escaping conflict and the 
effects of climate change; increased flux of migration due to extreme weather conditions may 
raise opportunities for human trafficking and exploitation. Furthermore, the decline in 
biodiversity will translate into more animal species under threat of extinction targeted by 
wildlife traffickers. In this landscape, the adoption of new technologies will bolster criminal 
organizations of various kinds. Examples of such crimes, illegal activities, threats and harms 
connected to climate change include: environmental crimes contributing to climate change 
(illegal mining and extraction, illegal use of underwater sources and streams, illegal 
deforestation, illegal waste management), wildlife trafficking and poaching, fraud and 
 
financial crimes (greenwashing, carbon credit fraud, misuse of climate funds), exploiting 
climate change-related disasters (water theft, looting after disasters, land grabbing), or social 
tensions (new forms of radicalisation and terrorism, increased displacement and migration 
challenging public order and disproportionately affecting groups in a vulnerable situation). 
New approaches centred around crime and climate change, including crime activities’ 
association with and amplification by climate change, present unique challenges that require 
thorough investigation and analysis. Recognizing these emerging trends is vital for 
formulating effective plans and policies, and equipping law enforcement with specialized 
skills, technology (including forensics) and training necessary to tackle these challenges in an 
increasingly volatile world. 
In this topic, apart from the mandatory participation of Police Authorities in the consortia, 
active involvement of other security practitioners, such as civil security services, Border 
Guard or Customs Authorities, is encouraged if relevant. Technological and societal angles 
should be addressed in a balanced way. 
Coordination among the successful proposals from this topic should be envisaged to avoid 
duplication and to exploit complementarities as well as opportunities for increased impact. 
Proposals funded under this topic are expected to provide ideas on how they would engage 
with the Europol Innovation Lab during the lifetime of the project, including validating the 
outcomes, with the aim of facilitating future uptake of innovations for the law enforcement 
community. For Police Authorities’ training -related aspects, cooperation of successful 
proposals with CEPOL is expected, provided that the Agency opts out from applying for 
funding. Finally, proposals are expected to address all applicable considerations expressed in 
the Introduction of the Fighting Crime and Terrorism Destination. 
This topic requires the effective contribution of Social Sciences and Humanities (SSH) 
disciplines and the involvement of SSH experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of 
relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce meaningful and significant effects enhancing the 
societal impact of the related research activities. Research in this area could be strengthened 
by considering the gender-specific dimensions of vulnerabilities and needs when relevant.