HORIZON-CL3-2026-01-DRS-05: Climate security and civil preparedness – new ways 
to develop pre - and post -crisis climate -change related scenarios for a more resilient 
Europe  
Call: Civil Security for Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.50 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 4.50 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or as 
an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Due to the scope of this topic, relevant international organisations with 
headquarters in a Member State or Horizon Europe Associated Country 
are exceptionally eligible for funding. 
 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: 
This topic requires the active involvement, as beneficiaries, of at least 3 
authorities in charge of disaster risk 129  from at least 3 different EU 
Member States or Associated Countries. For these participants, 
applicants must fill in the table “Information about security 
practitioners” in the application form with all the requested information, 
following the template provided in the submission IT tool. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 7 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 130. 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to some or all  of the following 
expected outcomes:  
 
• Identification and prioritization of climate security scenarios, assessing cascading and 
compounding risks across multiple sectors; 
• Development and validation of advanced tools, technologies, and data -driven solutions 
for climate - and environmental - risk forecasting, crisis management, and adaptation, 
including risk analytical and assessment tools, weather alerts and forecasts; 
• Development and validation of advanced tools and technologies to assess and monitor 
climate-induced disasters, also providing risk information on adaptation and risk 
reduction measures; 
• Strengthened engagement with stakeholders, ensuring end -user involvement in defining 
requirements, testing, and validation of climate security solutions; 
• Development and validation of new risk -management tools, technologies and data, 
closer to operational environment. Focus on local and regional risk -management and 
climate adaptation work should be prioritized; 
• Pre-crisis analysis and post -crisis situational awareness in case of those disasters related 
to climate change (floods, fires, landslides, heat waves, etc.);  
• Enhanced international cooperation, policy integration, and public awareness to improve 
climate security resilience and preparedness. Strengthen networks to exchange best 
practices and support the international dimension of the Preparedness Union Strategy 
and the Sendai Disaster Risk Reduction Framework.   
Scope: Climate change is a global challenge with profound security implications at the global, 
regional, and local levels. It exacerbates risks across multiple sectors, including agriculture, 
biodiversity, health, border security, economy, financial stability, transport, 
telecommunication and human displacement, leading to severe socio -economic consequences 
and destabilizing communities. The increasing frequency and intensity of climate -related 
disasters highlight the urgent need for a holistic, long -term strategy to address climate 
security, integrating risk assessment, crisis management, and adaptation measures, while also 
leveraging the expertise of the insurance sector. 
While climate services based on data analysis have reached a high level of trust among users, 
their application to civil security remains underdeveloped. Proposals should aim to develop 
methodologies, tools, and technologies that enhance situational awareness both before a crisis 
(pre-crisis) and after a crisis (post -crisis), enabling decision -makers and populations to 
respond effectively. Research should focus on defining priority climate security scenarios in 
the EU, identifying key stakeholders, and establishing essential indicators for informed 
decision-making. 
Efforts should be directed toward understanding and mitigating the impacts of floods, 
landslides, wildfires, and other climate -induced disasters. This includes developing improved 
methods and models for risk prevention and reduction, early detection, emergency response 
tactics, and rescue efforts under extreme conditions. The study of cascading effects and 
compounding disasters is critical, particularly regarding groups in a vulnerable situation such 
as older people, people with disabilities, and children. In this view, the proposals should build 
on the European Climate Risk Assessment (EUCRA 131 ) and consolidated national risk 
assessments132 as well as find synergies with project’s chosen for the similar EU Mission: 
Adaptation to Climate Change topic 133. Both the European Preparedness Union Strategy, the 
European Water Resilience Strategy and the upcoming European Climate Adaptation Plan act 
as policy guidance. 
Diverse climate and environmental security scenarios should be developed, supported by 
innovative, reliable tools that leverage multiple data sources, enabling a comprehensive and 
adaptive response. Proposals should also integrate space programme components such as 
Copernicus and Galileo to improve data accuracy and crisis response capabilities. A strong 
emphasis on international cooperation should foster knowledge exchange, enhance policy 
integration, and share best practices. Proposals should support transnational collaboration 
within the EU, facilitate improved data -sharing mechanisms, and align with global initiatives 
such as the Sendai Disaster Risk Reduction Framework. Capacity -building efforts to 
strengthen resilience to climate -related security threats and ensure a coordinated approach to 
addressing worst-case climate scenarios, as identified in the Niinistö report134. 
Projects may take into account the assets but also particular challenges faced by the European 
outermost regions and may include entities from these regions in the consortium’s 
composition. 
Where applicable, proposals should leverage the data and services available through European 
Research Infrastructures federated under the European Open Science Cloud, Copernicus, 
Destination Earth, as well as data from relevant Data Spaces. Particular efforts should be 
made to ensure that the data produced in the context of this topic is FAIR (Findable, 
Accessible, Interoperable and Re-usable).  
Where relevant, funded projects are encouraged to liaise with the European Commission's 
Joint Research Centre, for complementary real-scale testing at the Reaction Wall and HopLab 
of the European Laboratory for Structural Assessment (ELSA).