HORIZON-CL3-2026-01-SSRI-03: Public procurement of innovation for security 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 2.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 2.00 million. 
Type of Action Public Procurement of Innovative Solutions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: 
This topic requires the participation 166, as beneficiaries, of at least 3 
practitioners and 3 public procurers. These beneficiaries must be from at 
least 3 different EU Member States or Associated Countries. One 
organisation can have the role of practitioner and public procurer 
simultaneously, both counting for the overall number of organisations 
required for eligibility. Among the public procurers 167, minimum two 
must be independent legal entities that are public procurers, each 
established in a different Member State or Associated Country and with 
at least one of them established in a Member State. 
For participants with practitioner status, applicants must fill in the table 
“Information about security practitioners” in the application form with 
all the requested information, following the template provided in the 
submission IT tool. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
 
additionally be used). 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
PCP/PPI procurement costs are eligible. 
The specific conditions for actions with PCP/PPI procurements in 
section H of the General Annexes apply to grants funded under this 
topic. 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to some or all  of the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Last mile support to previous pre-commercial procurement (PCP) actions; 
• Development and deployment of innovative security solutions to address emerging 
threats, including post -quantum cryptography to counter emerging quantum threats, 
improving the effectiveness and efficiency of public security services; 
• Implementation of pilot projects and real -world testing, ensuring scalability and 
contributing to innovative security technologies.  
Scope: This Public Procurement of Innovative Solutions (PPI) initiative aims to advance the 
adoption of innovative civil security solutions. The focus is on solutions that have been 
partially demonstrated on a small scale and are nearly or already available in small quantities 
but have not yet been widely adopted or produced at scale. These solutions should 
demonstrate a clear market potential and be new to the procurers, their market segment, or the 
internal EU market, and must be relevant to procurers across EU Member States and/or 
Associated Countries. 
This PPI will specifically target innovative solutions that can address critical challenges in 
civil security and that are aligned with market readiness criteria. The solutions should meet 
requirements for sustainability (both operational and environmental), interoperability, 
adaptability, and be commercially viable while still holding residual market risks, such as not 
yet being produced in large quantities or at market-ready quality and pricing. 
This initiative will focus on solutions that have already demonstrated partially successful 
results but require scaling, refinement, or deployment in new environments to meet mass -
market price/quality standards. This is in line with Horizon Europe’s objective of fostering the 
early adoption of innovations that are critical to improving civil security across Europe168. 
In compliance with the requirements of the Horizon Europe Work Programme – General 
Annex H, this action will engage in open market consultations with potential tenderers and 
end-users to identify gaps between perceived procurement needs and current industry 
developments. Feedback from these consultations will inform the PPI tender specifications, 
ensuring that the PPI emphasizes the early adoption of innovative solutions rather than the 
procurement of fully mature or mass -market technologies. The market readiness of the 
solutions can be verified through conformity testing, certification, or quality labelling. The 
work will also involve establishing evaluation criteria based on best -value-for-money rather 
than solely on the lowest price, ensuring that innovations are assessed for both their technical 
performance and their potential to deliver long-term value. 
The PPI contract notices will be published EU -wide, with offers evaluated on objective 
criteria, ensuring transparency and fairness in the selection process. Functional/performance -
based specifications will be used to define the challenges and problems to be solved, rather 
than prescriptive solutions, and procurement will avoid any conflicts of interest. The 
distribution of Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) will be clearly outlined in the PPI call for 
tenders, in line with the objective of promoting fair and wide exploitation of the results. 
The process to be followed for the preparation and publication of the open market 
consultation and call for tender is described in General Annex H. 
By fostering the early adoption of innovative technologies, this PPI initiative will enable the 
European civil security sector to address emerging threats, while contributing to the EU’s 
broader goals of technological sovereignty and market innovation. This will allow public 
authorities to remain at the forefront of addressing evolving risks and threats. The action will 
also catalyse innovation, drive competition, and significantly reduce the time needed to move 
from the initial concept to market. 
Finally, proposals are expected to address all applicable considerations expressed in the 
Introduction of the Strengthened Security Research and Innovation Destination.