HORIZON-CL3-2027-01-FCT-03: Open topic on enhanced prevention, detection and 
deterrence of societal issues related to various forms of crime
Call: Civil Security for Society 2027 
Specific conditions  
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 3.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 6.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: 
This topic requires the active involvement, as beneficiaries, of at least 2 
Police Authorities51 and at least 2 Civil Society Organisations (or Non -
Governmental Organisations) from at least 3 different EU Member 
States or Associated Countries. For these participants, applicants must 
fill in the table “Information about security practitioners” in the 
application form with all the requested information, following the 
template provided in the submission IT tool. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 5 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 52. 
 
Beneficiaries must provide financial support to third parties. The 
support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000 to 
support effective collaboration and/or coordination with additional 
relevant national Police Authorities and/or CSOs/NGOs from EU 
Member States or Associated Countries. 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to some or all  of the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Improved, modern, uniform and validated tools, skills or methodologies as well as 
innovative training curricula are available for security practitioners (Police Authorities in 
Europe, Non -Governmental Organisations, Civil Society Organisations) to prevent, 
detect and deter criminal or terrorist offences under consideration, taking into account all 
applicable legislation and fundamental rights; 
• Enhanced understanding of the cultural and societal aspects of crime or 
terrorism/radicalisation offences under consideration as well as on the key challenges 
related to combating them; 
• Evidence-based support is available to policymakers on shaping and tuning of regulation 
related to crime or terrorism/radicalisation offences under consideration; 
• Enhanced perception by citizens that Europe is an area of freedom, justice, security and 
respect of privacy and human rights, thanks to, e.g., innovative awareness -raising 
campaigns explaining to citizens the key and evolving mechanisms of crime or 
terrorism/radicalisation offences under consideration, and how to protect against them.   
Scope: Under the Open Topic, proposals are welcome to address both existing and upcoming 
challenges in fighting crimes that are deeply rooted in cultural and/or societal factors that are 
not covered by the other topics of Horizon Europe Calls Fighting Crime and Terrorism 2021 - 
2022, Fighting Crime and Terrorism 2023 -2024 and Fighting Crime and Terrorism 2025 and 
Fighting Crime and Terrorism 2026-2027. 
Adapted to the nature, scope and type of proposed activities, proposals should convincingly 
explain how they will plan and/or carry out demonstration, testing or validation of developed 
tools and solutions. Proposals should also delineate the plans to develop possible future 
uptake and upscaling at national and EU level for possible next steps after the research project 
completion. If applicable, research proposals should consider building on or complementing 
 
previous research, including but not limited to, research stemming from Horizon Framework 
Programmes, such as those funded under HORIZON-CL2 calls. 
The proposals funded under this topic that concern issues which are within the mandate of 
Europol53 are expected to engage with the Europol Innovation Lab during the lifetime of the 
project, including validating the outcomes, with the aim of facilitating future uptake of 
innovations for the law enforcement community. Similarly, if the proposals concern drug -
related issues, they are expected to engage with the EU Drugs Agency during the lifetime of 
the project, including validating the outcomes. For aspects of training of Police Authorities, 
cooperation of successful proposals with CEPOL is expected, provided that the Agency opts 
out from applying for funding. If the funded proposal concerns radicalisation, the consortium 
is encouraged to liaise with the EU Knowledge Hub on prevention of radicalisation with the 
aim of facilitating the streamlining of their priorities and the dissemination of their results. 
In this topic the integration of the gender and intersectional dimension (sex and gender 
analysis) in research and innovation content should be addressed only if relevant in relation to 
the objectives of the research effort. 
Proposals should plan their activities opting for the Financial Support to Third Parties in order 
to provide financial support to practitioners (Police Authorities and/or Non -Governmental 
Organisations/Civil Society Organisations) for expanding the proposed work in terms of 
additional user groups, complementary assessments, technology - or methodology -testing 
activities. From 5% up to 20% of the EU funding requested by the proposal may be allocated 
to the purpose of financial support to third parties. Proposals must clearly describe the 
objectives and the expected results to be obtained, including the elements listed in the 
application template. Proposals are also expected to describe the methods and processes 
relevant to comply with the general eligibility conditions for financial support to third parties 
set out in General Annex B and to demonstrate effectiveness (impact). 
To ensure the active involvement of and timely feedback from relevant security practitioners, 
i.e., Police Authorities and Non -Governmental Organisations / Civil Society Organisations, 
proposals should plan a mid -term deliverable consisting in the assessment of the project’s 
mid-term outcomes, performed by the practitioners involved in the project. Activities 
proposed within this topic should address, in a balanced way, both technological and societal 
dimensions of the issue under consideration. This topic requires the effective contribution of 
SSH disciplines and the involvement of SSH experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of 
relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce meaningful and significant effects enhancing the 
societal impact of the related innovation activities.