HORIZON-CL3-2026-01-FCT-06: Prevention and mitigation of misuse of synthetic 
biology for bioterrorism purposes 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 3.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 3.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 46. 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Increased understanding of European policy makers, research community, biotech 
companies, and relevant security practitioners of the threat of bioterrorism and of 
synthetic biology, including a thorough lawful analysis of what needs to be monitored in 
this context, what needs to be regulated and how; 
• Awareness raised within the related scientific community how research in synthetic 
biology can be used for malicious purposes.   
Scope: The rising threat of bioterrorism is driven by recent scientific advancements, notably 
by growing accessibility of synthetic biology, genetic engineering, related commercial 
services and public databases, which in turn enhance their obtainability to non-state actors and 
individuals with malicious intentions. The proliferation of do -it-yourself biohacking and 
community laboratories, including gene editing and sequencing technology, dropping costs of 
equipment and increased simplicity of use may inadvertently facilitate knowledge and skills 
dissemination about biological threats and open new pathways for bioterrorism. Challenges in 
detection, particularly the lengthy incubation periods of biological agents, underscore the 
urgent need for improved identification technologies to allow for timely intervention and 
reduce potential mass casualties, considering both characterization through advanced tools by 
expert labs and simple deployable methods. Given that properly weaponized biological agents 
can be more lethal than nuclear weapons, their cross -border implications warrant focused 
attention. Recent incidents involving biotoxins across various European countries illustrate 
the feasibility of biological attacks. The increasing weaponisation of drones highlights an 
alarming trend that could extend to biological agents, further complicating threat landscapes. 
 
The potential economic and social consequences of biological attacks necessitate robust 
prevention and preparedness measures to mitigate overwhelming impacts on healthcare 
systems and society at large. 
Proposals are expected to address, in a lawful manner, the emerging threats of bioterrorism in 
Europe, particularly in the context of synthetic biology. Recognising bioterrorism as a low -
probability but high-impact event, consortia should review current and future risks, flag areas 
requiring reinforced monitoring, as well as identify missing regulatory frameworks necessary 
for ensuring public security and safety. Furthermore, proposals should bring together diverse 
consortia to enhance our understanding, prevention, preparedness, and response to 
bioterrorism and create a comprehensive approach to this pressing issue. 
Coordination among the successful proposals from this topic should be envisaged to avoid 
duplication and to exploit complementarities as well as opportunities for increased impact. In 
this topic the integration of the gender dimension (sex and gender analysis) in research and 
innovation content should be addressed only if relevant in relation to the objectives of the 
research effort. 
Proposals funded under this topic are expected to provide ideas on how they would engage 
with the Europol Innovation Lab during the lifetime of the project. Similarly, if the proposals 
concern drug-related issues, they are expected to engage with the EU Drugs Agency during 
the lifetime of the project, including validating the outcomes. 
Finally, proposals are expected to address all applicable considerations expressed in the 
Introduction of the Fighting Crime and Terrorism Destination.