HORIZON-CL3-2027-01-FCT-04: Open topic on increasing security of citizens against 
terrorism, including in public spaces 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2027 
 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.50 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 9.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility conditions apply: 
This topic requires the active involvement, as beneficiaries, of at least 3 
Police Authorities 54  from at least 3 different EU Member States or 
Associated Countries. For these participants, applicants must fill in the 
table “Information about security practitioners” in the application form 
with all the requested information, following the template provided in 
the submission IT tool. 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 55. 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to some or all  of the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Enhanced ability of Police Authorities in Europe and other relevant security practitioners 
to identify and prevent emergent challenges in the terrorism -related issue under 
consideration; 
• Harmonised and modern tools as well as procedures are available for Police Authorities 
in Europe and other relevant security practitioners to counter the terrorism -related 
problem under consideration, in full compliance with applicable legislation on protection 
of personal data and protection of fundamental rights; 
• Improved cooperation between Police Authorities in Europe and other relevant security 
practitioners, as well as with international actors, in tackling the problem in question; 
• Training curricula are available for Police Authorities in Europe and other relevant 
security practitioners for an improved countering of the terrorism -related problem under 
consideration.   
Scope: Under the Open Topic, proposals are welcome to address new, upcoming or 
unforeseen challenges and/or creative or disruptive solutions for increasing security of 
European citizens against terrorism, including in public spaces, that are not covered by the 
other topics of Horizon Europe Calls Fighting Crime and Terrorism 2021 -2022, Fighting 
Crime and Terrorism 2023-2024, Fighting Crime and Terrorism 2025 and Fighting Crime and 
Terrorism 2026-2027. 
Adapted to the nature, scope and type of proposed projects, proposals should convincingly 
explain how they will plan and/or carry out demonstration, testing or validation of developed 
tools and solutions. In this topic the integration of the gender dimension (sex and gender 
 
analysis) in research and innovation content should be addressed only if relevant in relation to 
the objectives of the research effort. 
Proposals should also delineate the plans to develop possible future uptake and upscaling at 
national and EU level for possible next steps after the research project. Research proposals 
should consider, build on if appropriate and not duplicate previous research, including but not 
limited to research by other Framework Programmes’ projects. Coordination among the 
successful proposals from this topic should be envisaged to avoid duplication and to exploit 
complementarities as well as opportunities for increased impact. The proposals funded under 
this topic that concern issues which are within the mandate of Europol 56 are expected to 
engage with the Europol Innovation Lab during the lifetime of the project, including 
validating the outcomes, with the aim of facilitating future uptake of innovations for the law 
enforcement community. For aspects of training of Police Authorities, cooperation of 
successful proposals with CEPOL is expected, provided that the Agency opts out from 
applying for funding. To ensure the active involvement of and timely feedback from relevant 
security practitioners, proposals should plan a mid -term deliverable consisting in the 
assessment of the project’s mid-term outcomes, performed by the practitioners involved in the 
project. Finally, proposals are expected to address all applicable considerations expressed in 
the Introduction of the Fighting Crime and Terrorism Destination.