HORIZON-CL3-2026-01-INFRA-02: Security challenges of the green transition in 
urban und peri urban areas 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 4.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: 
This topic requires involvement as beneficiaries of at least 3 relevant 
practitioners from EU Member States or Associated Countries. 
Depending on the specific focus of the proposal submitted, these 
practitioners should represent one or several of the following portfolios: 
• critical infrastructure operator, 
• authority responsible for critical infrastructure resilience, 
• civil protection authority, 
• safety or security first responders, 
For these participants, applicants must fill in the table “Information 
about security practitioners” in the application form with all the 
requested information, following the template provided in the 
submission IT tool. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 5 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 102. 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to some or all of the following 
outcomes: 
• Identification and analysis of potential new security risks related to innovative 
technologies being deployed in the urban and peri-urban environments; 
 
• Innovative and modern tools to identify and measure changes in urban and peri -urban 
areas caused by the green transition, insofar as they concern security and possible 
resilience approaches; 
• Verification of measures countering potential safety and security risks, hazards and 
challenges arising in areas hosting green technologies; 
• Contribution to building awareness and societal acceptance for the safety and security 
aspects of the green transition; 
• Impacts of incidents involving new and emerging technologies are examined, including 
environmental and climate risks; 
• Security, safety and resilience aspects of the supply chains of green technologies are 
analysed, including the technological and resource dependencies, and their aligning with 
the European strategic autonomy principle; 
• Authorities and critical infrastructure operators are equipped with efficient evaluation 
methodologies for safe and secure deployment and integration of new and emerging 
technologies into urban and peri-urban areas.   
Scope: Climate change and environmental degradation are an existential threat to the world, 
and the green transition is a critical component of the EU's strategy to reduce and mitigate 
their impacts, as well as to contribute to the European competitiveness. This approach is also 
part of the effort to transform Europe into a modern, resource -efficient, resilient and 
competitive economy. However, rapid deployment of new and emerging technologies, such 
as, but not limited to: green and grid -interactive roofs and walls, solar power installations, 
electric vehicle charging stations, energy storages, smart sensors and surveillance systems, 
green transportation systems, nature -based or other sustainable or reused construction 
materials, or specific infrastructure solutions may create security risks through new 
interdependencies including legacy infrastructure, the accumulation of deployed solutions, or 
otherwise create new potential risks and hazards of unknown scale and origin. 
Proposals submitted under this topic should investigate the integration of sustainable & 
environmentally friendly technologies into urban and peri -urban areas to identify and explore 
physical and cyber risks and vulnerabilities resulting from this phenomenon, including, but 
not limited to: battery fires, toxic leaks, electric shocks, structural integrity, toxic waste, data 
privacy, land management disruptions, including potential negative impacts on the natural 
environment, or social and community tensions. The proposals should also consider the threat 
of malicious access, software and data manipulation and misuse of managing systems 
potentially leading to harm to health, loss of life, environmental damage or economic damage, 
regardless of whether the intention is criminal, vandalism, hybrid attack or other. 
The ultimate goal of this research is to inform operators, first responders and authorities on 
how to mitigate risks, enhance their preparedness and improve their response to potential 
incidents. By recognizing emerging threats, it should be possible to prevent major incidents 
from occurring, and in the event of an accident, provide effective strategies, managerial 
advice, processes and methodologies to respond and recover. The research should provide 
recommendations that are tailored to diverse communities and context needs such as those 
with different socio -economic profiles, adapted to people of different ages and genders to 
identify and mitigate physical and cyber risks and vulnerabilities. Proactively addressing 
major safety and security risks associated with the green transition will help to future -proof 
these technologies, build public trust, and promote their widespread acceptance, backed by 
evidence-based safety and security policies. 
The proposed research should provide a comprehensive understanding of adaptive 
capabilities, the risks and vulnerabilities associated with green technologies , as well as 
practical recommendations for mitigating these risks and ensuring their safe, resilient and 
secure deployment while utilising the nature -based solutions and respecting principles of 
biodiversity. By doing so, it will contribute to the development of a resilient and sustainable 
urban environment, where the benefits of green technologies can be fully realized while 
minimizing their potential risks and negative impacts. 
In this topic the integration of the gender dimension (sex and gender analysis) in research and 
innovation content should be addressed only if relevant in relation to the objectives of the 
research effort.