HORIZON-CL3-2026-01-BM-02: Accessible and available travel facilitation 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 8.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: 
This topic requires the active involvement, as beneficiaries, of at least 2 
Border or Coast Guard Authorities from at least 2 different EU Member 
States or Associated Countries. For these participants, applicants must 
fill in the table “Information about security practitioners” in the 
application form with all the requested information, following the 
template provided in the submission IT tool. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -7 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 73. 
 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to some or all  of the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Improved trusted, secure, and easier automated seamless facilitation for travel, border 
crossing through border crossing points (BCPs), and/or visa procedures with an 
integrated approach, minimized risk for bias, and accessible for all travellers minimising 
digital divides; 
• Facilitated solutions with same approach adaptable by all European border control staff, 
in all conditions and border control points (BCPs); 
• Reduced workload and improved safety, user experience and performance of 
practitioners’ staff involved in border management.   
Scope: Facilitation of travel and border crossings at border crossing points (BCPs) across the 
external EU borders went, and is further going, through developments thanks to updated 
procedures and regulatory frameworks and to innovative European technologies. From 
automated border control (ABC) gates to “no -gate” solutions and “seamless travel”, and with 
systems like the Entry -Exit System (EES), the Electronic Travel and Information 
Authorisation System (ETIAS), and the development of digital travel credentials and digital 
identity more in general, Europe has one of the most advanced, secure and facilitated border 
check systems in the world. 
Travel facilitation schemes are still not as fair, inclusive and accessible as they should be. 
There are several technical exceptions that for example make difficult for families, other 
groups of people travelling together, people with disabilities and/or reduced mobility, or with 
relatively lower digital skills, to smoothly use travel and border crossing facilitation solutions. 
This is a capability gap of travel facilitation systems that has an impact on both a fair 
accessibility and availability for travellers, and on performance and efficiency of the systems 
themselves. Travel facilitation systems should ensure both security and easy passenger flow, 
while remaining accessible to all travellers. 
On the other hand, both technical systems and procedures may have differences depending on 
the context or the BCP of application. This may be a limit for the performance and user 
experience of European integrated border management, especially in a perspective of a larger 
help to national members of the European Border and Coast Guard (EBCG) from the 
Standing Corps of the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (EBCGA). 
According to the EBCG Capability Roadmap, legal border crossings should be as swift and 
simple as possible, while at the same time allowing a smooth crossing of bona fide persons, 
and of the goods carried with them. 
Innovation actions funded under this topic will develop and test solutions for advanced 
seamless travel and border crossing and/or visa procedures, protecting and promoting 
fundamental rights, minimising the risk for bias and being accessible for all travellers, with no 
or minimised limitations depending on age, sex, gender, disability, physical or digital abilities. 
To minimise potential for discrimination or physical or digital divide regarding travel 
facilitation schemes, solutions should be inclusive and accessible. 
Furthermore, solutions should be tested for use with the same approach by all European 
border control staff in all conditions and BCPs. 
The proposed solutions can include innovative technologies, innovative processes, innovative 
knowledge and/or a combination thereof. Solutions should include automated decision 
support systems suggesting to the end -users (border checks operators) which procedure, 
technology or database can be used without infringing rights of travellers. Solutions should 
also integrate and, if appropriate, further develop, biometric matching that minimises data 
shared (for example limiting to matching scores) to improve data protection. 
Proposals submitted under this topic are expected to address the priorities of the European 
Border and Coast Guard and of its Agency (Frontex) and of the European Union Agency for 
the Operational Management of Large-Scale IT Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and 
Justice (eu-LISA). This should start from the definition of requirements and the design phase 
of their work, including basing on the EBCG Capability Roadmap; and on the engagement 
with the Agencies during the implementation of the project. At the stage of proposal 
preparation, Frontex and eu-LISA will not provide any guidance on, or otherwise be involved 
in the preparation of, project proposals. Proposals should consider and foresee that Frontex 
and eu-LISA may observe pilots and demonstrations when the project will be implemented, 
with the aim of facilitating future uptake of innovations for the border, customs and coast 
guard community. 
To ensure the active involvement of and timely feedback from relevant security practitioners, 
proposals should plan a mid -term deliverable consisting in the assessment of the project’s 
mid-term outcomes, performed by the practitioners involved in the project. 
Depending on the particular scope of the proposal, participation of Customs Authorities is 
welcome.