HORIZON-CL3-2026-01-SSRI-04: Development of ecosystem and next -generation 
capabilities for a secured European Critical Communication System in civil security 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 3.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 3.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: 
This topic requires the active involvement, as beneficiaries, of at least 3 
first responders’ organisations. For these participants, applicants must 
fill in the table “Information about security practitioners” in the 
application form with all the requested information, following the 
template provided in the submission IT tool. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 169. 
 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to some or all  of the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Creation of an integrated ecosystem for secure and resilient communication systems to 
support civil security operations across Europe; 
• Advancement of next -generation capabilities, ensuring robust, scalable, and 
interoperable communication systems for critical civil security functions relevant for the 
future EU Critical Communication System (EUCCS).   
Scope: The European Union Critical Communication System (EUCCS) is a flagship initiative 
aiming at gradual development of a unified, secure, and interoperable communication 
infrastructure to support critical public safety and civil security operations across Europe. 
Aims to provide law enforcement, first responders, emergency services, and other critical 
sectors with reliable, real -time communication capabilities, even in challenging or high -risk 
environments. This topic aims to streamline the creation of an integrated ecosystem for secure 
and resilient communication systems that support civil security operations across Europe. It 
aims to advance next -generation capabilities, ensuring robust, scalable, and interoperable 
communication systems tailored to the critical civil security functions that will be required for 
the future EUCCS, taking into consideration the ongoing migration of the EU towards post -
quantum cryptography. 
The action funded under this topic will develop secure communication devices and 
applications that meet the unique needs of practitioners across various disciplines. These 
solutions will go beyond current technologies, enabling specialized, ruggedized devices that 
support hands-free capabilities, including wearable sensors, haptics, and augmented reality to 
enhance situational awareness. Devices will be designed to ensure communication in 
environments lacking cellular infrastructure and will be built with high standards of security, 
including addressing cryptographic security via post -quantum cryptography, and 
trustworthiness while also ensuring an inclusive and gender -sensitive approach to meet the 
diverse needs of all users. The action funded under this topic should support relevant 
standardisation processes where possible. 
The solutions should be mission -critical, offering high availability, resilience, data exchange 
and authentication both secured via state -of-the-art post -quantum cryptographic protocols, 
even in areas with limited or no commercial network coverage. They must be fully compatible 
with the EUCCS, leveraging 3GPP Mission Critical Services (MCX) and open APIs to create 
a versatile and interoperable ecosystem. By working closely with first responders and utilizing 

open platforms, the project will ensure that the developed solutions address the specific 
operational needs of responders, facilitating effective cross -agency and pan -European 
collaboration. 
Finally, proposals are expected to address all applicable considerations expressed in the 
Introduction of the Strengthened Security Research and Innovation Destination.