HORIZON-CL3-2027-01-BM-02: Trusted, secure, quality future digital travel 
credentials 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2027 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 8.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: 
This topic requires the active involvement, as beneficiaries, of at least 2 
Border or Coast Guard Authorities from at least 2 different EU Member 
States or Associated Countries. For these participants, applicants must 
fill in the table “Information about security practitioners” in the 
application form with all the requested information, following the 
template provided in the submission IT tool. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 79. 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to some or all  of the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Development, testing and integration of issuance, validation and sharing capabilities for 
possible future types (beyond Type 1) of Digital Travel Credentials (DTC); 
• Integration of innovative, on -the-move, biometrics and remote biometric acquisition 
modalities to support the use of DTCs; 
• Improved secure connectivity and interoperability for future DTCs; 
• Improved capability of issuance of emergency travel documents and/or emergency 
DTCs.  
Scope: Issuance, verification and management of digital travel credentials (DTCs) is relevant 
for border management, immigration and visa management. Furthermore, it could also be 
relevant to combat illicit activities such as terrorism, crime or frauds. This topic aims at 
supporting research and innovation that explore, develop and test enhanced capabilities for 
securely issuing, verify and manage (including sharing) possible future types of digital travel 
credentials (DTCs) for travel across the external borders of the EU. 
The proposed solutions must be compatible with current, planned or foreseeable EU DTCs 
formats, and with applicable International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) schemes, but 
they should also push forward to possible further types of DTCs (“Type 2” and “Type 3”). 
Additionally, the funded actions should also work on the integration of current and new 
biometrics, and/or new biometric acquisition modality, in support of DTCs. This includes but 
does not limit to biometrics such as fingermark, palmprint, palmmark, rolled fingerprint, 
contactless fingerphotos, and biometric acquisition modalities such as remote and on -the-
move, including those modalities developed by previous projects funded by this Destination 
of Horizon Europe Cluster 3. The project should develop and/or contribute to reference 
biometric sample quality assessments standards for these biometric modalities included in the 
DTCs, compatibly with existing relevant tools such as the Open Source Face Image Quality 
 
(OFIQ), or improving forward -looking interoperability, for example between contact and 
contactless fingerprint data. 
The funded research project(s) can also address the use case of verification, issuance or re -
issuance of (emergency) DTCs in cases of emergencies (including evacuations of EU 
citizens). 
Funded research can additionally address the security of breeder documents, which risk to be 
“weak links” when they are used to obtain genuine, secure travel credentials. 
Proposals submitted under this topic are expected to address the priorities of the European 
Border and Coast Guard and of its Agency (Frontex) and of the European Union Agency for 
the Operational Management of Large-Scale IT Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and 
Justice (eu-LISA). This should start from the definition of requirements and the design phase 
of their work, including basing on the EBCG Capability Roadmap; and on the engagement 
with the Agencies during the implementation of the project. At the stage of proposal 
preparation, Frontex and eu-LISA will not provide any guidance on, or otherwise be involved 
in the preparation of, project proposals. Proposals should consider and foresee that Frontex 
and eu-LISA may observe pilots and demonstrations when the project will be implemented, 
with the aim of facilitating future uptake of innovations for the border and coast guard 
community. 
To ensure the active involvement of and timely feedback from relevant security practitioners, 
proposals should plan a mid -term deliverable consisting in the assessment of the project’s 
mid-term outcomes, performed by the practitioners involved in the project.