HORIZON-CL3-2027-01-INFRA-01: Enhancing physical protection of critical 
infrastructures 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2027 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
The following additional eligibility conditions apply: 
This topic requires involvement as beneficiaries of at least 3 relevant 
practitioners from EU Member States or Associated Countries. 
Depending on the specific proposal submitted, these practitioners should 
represent one or several of the following portfolios: 
• critical infrastructure operator, 
• authority responsible for critical infrastructure resilience, 
• civil protection authority, 
• law enforcement or private companies providing security for 
critical infrastructure. 
For these participants, applicants must fill in the table “Information 
about security practitioners” in the application form with all the 
requested information, following the template provided in the 
submission IT tool. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -7 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 105. 
 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to some or all of the following 
outcomes: 
• Critical infrastructure operators and authorities have improved physical risks and hazards 
assessment capabilities; 
• Perimeter security, access control, surveillance systems, remote sensors and other 
systems used by or relevant to critical infrastructure operators are capable of coping with 
threats from misuse of new and emerging technologies; 
• Improved operational procedures, including incidents management and training 
curricula, are developed; 
• Innovative solutions for critical infrastructure resilience are being developed, utilising 
recent advancements in spatial planning, security-by-design, preparedness-by-design and 
nature-based solutions using an inclusive approach that address diverse needs.   
Scope: Physical protection of critical infrastructure should keep up its advancement to match 
risks and hazards stemming from malicious use of new and emerging technologies, and 
evolving operational environment, as well as improve its safety and security measures against 
knowns and emerging threats. Following this approach entities providing essential services 
should reduce their vulnerability, among others, to threats from improvised explosive devices, 
ramming attacks, sabotage, uncooperative and hostile unmanned platforms including swarm 
robotics, penetration of access points by unauthorised individuals and vehicles, unauthorised 
access to hazardous material storage, removal of critical components, or deterioration of 
critical infrastructure due to age, inadequate design or changed operational conditions, 
including climate. 
Proposals submitted under this topic should identify and analyse possible new challenges for 
the physical security of the critical entities and develop adequate tools, recommendations, 
manuals and training programmes for relevant operators and authorities. Where relevant for 
their scope proposals should utilise the nature -based solutions and respect principles of 
biodiversity. Furthermore, solutions should take into account interdependencies in the context 
of supply chains and their impact on physical protection. 
Coordination among the successful proposals from this topic and projects funded under 
HORIZON-CL3-2025-01-INFRA-01: Open topic for improved preparedness for, response to 
and recovery from large -scale disruptions of critical infrastructures  and HORIZON -CL3-
2025-01-INFRA-02: Open topic for role of the human factor for resilience of European 
 
critical entities, should be envisaged in order to avoid duplication, share resources and exploit 
complementarities and opportunities for increased impact. 
In this topic the integration of the gender dimension (sex and gender analysis) in research and 
innovation content should be addressed only if relevant in relation to the objectives of the 
research effort.