HORIZON-CL3-2026-01-DRS-01: Designing new ways of risk awareness and enhanced 
disaster preparedness 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 3.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 6.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Due to the scope of this topic, relevant international organisations with 
headquarters in a Member State or Horizon Europe Associated Country 
are exceptionally eligible for funding. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: 
This topic requires the active involvement, as beneficiaries, of at least 3 
organisations from at least 3 different EU Member States or Associated 
 
Countries as follows: (i) at least one civil society organisation (CSO); 
(ii) at least one authority in charge of disaster risk 115 (iii) at least one 
organisation representing local or regional authorities. For these 
participants, applicants must fill in the table “Information about security 
practitioners” in the application form with all the requested information, 
following the template provided in the submission IT tool. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 5 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 116. 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to some or all  of the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Development of innovative tools and methodologies to monitor and improve risk 
awareness across society, integrating diverse community perspectives and leveraging 
advanced technologies; 
 
• Development and uptake solutions and tools for the successful increase of safety culture 
and societal resilience of communities with concrete material, while considering also the 
inclusion and protection of marginalized populations in disaster scenarios; 
• Creation of comprehensive, inclusive preparedness plans that involve all societal sectors 
and governance levels, ensuring coordinated and effective responses to disasters (such as 
from early warning to early action), including scarcity of resources; 
• Establishment of a resilient, adaptive response framework that enhances collaboration 
between public authorities, communities, and private sectors, improving overall disaster 
resilience.  
Scope: Building on the whole -of-society and whole -of-government approach, this topic 
should contribute to enhancing risk awareness and disaster preparedness through the 
development of innovative tools, methodologies, and frameworks. A key focus should be on 
integrating diverse societal and resilience perspectives considering people in a vulnerable 
situation, ensuring inclusive participation in risk communication strategies, and leveraging 
accessible advanced technologies and processes to improve public understanding of hazards 
and vulnerabilities (such as gender, disabilities and others social factors. and capabilities. 
Efforts should aim at designing and validating novel approaches to risk perception, 
communication, including digital platforms, immersive technologies, and participatory tools 
that foster citizen engagement and behavioural change, as well as wildlife protection. 
Behavioural insights should inform the projects on effective methods in population’s 
preparedness including the risk communication. Special attention should be given to 
marginalized or vulnerable groups in a vulnerable situation ensure equitable access to risk 
information and preparedness resources. 
To strengthen disaster preparedness and response capabilities across Europe, there is a clear 
need for an innovative, interoperable solution that enables the development of new strategies 
for risk awareness and disaster management. Such a solution should facilitate seamless 
collaboration between public authorities, civil society, local communities, and the private 
sector. It must support the co -creation of comprehensive preparedness plans that ensure a 
coordinated, robust, resilient, and effective response to a wide range of disaster scenarios. 
Central to this approach should be the integration of a command -and-control system that 
allows for centralized information management, efficient coordination among all 
stakeholders, and rapid, data -driven decision-making in emergency situations. For example, 
efforts to guarantee early action from early warning should be taken into account. 
Furthermore, proposals should work towards the creation of comprehensive, multi -
stakeholder preparedness plans that involve all levels of governance, civil society, the private 
sector, and local communities. These plans should establish mechanisms for cross -sectoral 
coordination, efficient resource allocation, and effective decision -making in crisis situations 
and the development of solutions and tools to ensure a greater culture of safety and societal 
resilience in the communities. Research should also exp lore innovative governance models 
that enhance interoperability and cooperation between different entities. To strengthen 
disaster resilience, proposals should develop and test adaptive response frameworks that 
enhance collaboration between public authorities, civil society, communities, and businesses. 
These frameworks should incorporate near real-time risk assessment tools, digital simulations, 
and scenario-based exercises to improve the capacity to anticipate, respond to, and recover 
from disasters. The integration of AI -driven decision -support systems, taking into account 
existing biases, digital twin technologies (including Destination Earth), and predictive 
analytics could further contribute to a more effective, evidence-based crisis response. 
Projects are expected to contribute to the overall enhancement of societal resilience by 
fostering a culture of preparedness, strengthening community -driven disaster risk reduction 
initiatives, proactive engagement in prevention - and mitigation of disaster’s effects, and 
ensuring that all actors within society have the necessary tools and knowledge to respond 
effectively to future crises. 
Where relevant, projects may take into account the assets, but also particular challenges faced 
by the European outermost regions and may include entities from these regions in the 
consortium’s composition. 
Projects should conduct a stakeholder or market analysis and a roadmap or plan for uptake of 
the developed methodologies, findings, and technologies to the industry, the research and 
innovation community, and/or the relevant authorities. 
International cooperation in this topic is strongly recommended. Proposals should also take 
into account lessons learned from past disasters and align with existing EU policies, 
frameworks, and international commitments in the field of disaster risk reduction and crisis 
management. Especially the population preparedness chapter of the Preparedness Union 
Strategy, such as the preparEU initiative, should be considered. Finding synergies with 
projects from operational grants, such as the Knowledge for Action in Prevention & 
Preparedness (KAPP)117, is recommended.