HORIZON-CL3-2026-01-FCT-03: Missing persons: prevention and investigation 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 5.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 5.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity established 
in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: 
This topic requires the active involvement, as beneficiaries, of at least 3 
Police Authorities40 and at least 2 Civil Society Organisations (or Non -
Governmental Organisations) from at least 3 different EU Member 
States or Associated Countries. For these participants, applicants must 
fill in the table “Information about security practitioners” in the 
application form with all the requested information, following the 
 
template provided in the submission IT tool. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 41. 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to some or all  of the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Improved skills, tools and training curricula for Police Authorities in Europe and Civil 
Society Organisations (or Non-Governmental Organisations) to work with at-risk groups 
to prevent persons from going missing. Those improved skills, tools and training 
curricula are to take into account European multicultural dimension, as well as legal and 
ethical rules of operation; 
• Enhanced investigation tools and methodologies for Police Authorities in Europe to 
tackle cold cases in the context of missing persons, based on modern (forensic) 
technologies and criminology; 
 
• Modern training curricula for Police Authorities, their improved cross -border 
cooperation and enhanced tools and methodologies to tackle new cases of missing 
persons; 
• Enriched European common approaches applied by Police Authorities in Europe to fight 
the issue of missing persons relying on the synergy of technology, the latest socio -
psychological knowledge learned from cases, as well as field experience of Police 
Authorities and entities dealing with victims, while fully respecting fundamental rights 
such as privacy, protection of personal data and anonymity of victims.  
Scope: The issue of missing persons is a multifaceted challenge that encompasses diverse 
categories and is influenced by various factors. People may go missing under a variety of 
circumstances, such as voluntary disappearances, abductions, cases related to mental health 
crises, or because of conflict, migration, geopolitical instability, natural disasters. Groups in a 
vulnerable situation - notably children, victims of trafficking and exploitation, persons with 
disabilities and persons suffering from cognitive impairments - face an even greater risk of 
going missing, often under distressing and dangerous conditions. Tackling this issue requires 
a coordinated response from multiple stakeholders, from Police Authorities via Civil Society 
Organisations (CSOs) or Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) to the involvement of the 
overall society. 
In an era of rapid technological advancement and societal developments, there is a pressing 
need to improve current European approaches to fight the issue of missing persons 
(prevention and/or investigation of cold and new cases) using innovative societal and 
technological solutions. To this end, modernised skills, training curricula and methodologies 
for Police Authorities, CSOs and NGOs to work with people in a vulnerable situation and 
children are needed, such as effective awareness raising campaigns, which should be 
accessible to persons with disabilities, that take into account European multicultural 
dimension. When it comes to investigation, Police Authorities need efficient tools that benefit 
from new and emerging technologies to solve cold cases while combining modern forensic 
science (including biometrics and digital forensics) and criminology, e.g., modern tools for 
using an old DNA, or accurate facial ageing, among others. When multiple practitioners are 
involved in exchanging sensitive data, data sharing tools in a privacy -preserving manner 
should be considered. Furthermore, for new cases of missing persons, apart from an improved 
cross-border cooperation, Police Authorities also need, on the one hand, a modernised training 
to face such situations more efficiently, improving the dialogues and interactions with 
families, taking into account a gender sensitive and intersectional approach when relevant, 
and on the other hand, modern technologies and forensic tools for, for example, fast and 
reliable cross-matching of DNA samples between new and cold cases. 
If a proposal concerns forensics, its consortium should involve forensic institutes as well. 
Coordination among the successful proposals from this topic should be envisaged to avoid 
duplication and to exploit complementarities as well as opportunities for increased impact. 
Proposals funded under this topic are expected to provide ideas on how they would engage 
with the Europol Innovation Lab during the lifetime of the project, including validating the 
outcomes, with the aim of facilitating future uptake of innovations for the law enforcement 
community. For aspects of training of Police Authorities, cooperation of successful proposals 
with CEPOL is expected, provided that the Agency opts out from applying for funding. To 
ensure the active involvement of and timely feedback from relevant security practitioners, 
proposals should plan a mid -term deliverable consisting in the assessment of the project’s 
mid-term outcomes, performed by the practitioners involved in the project. Finally, proposals 
are expected to address all applicable considerations expressed in the Introduction of the 
Fighting Crime and Terrorism Destination.