HORIZON-CL3-2026-01-FCT-05: Enhancing the security of citizens against terrorism 
and lone-actor violence in confined spaces such as schools 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
4.835 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 9.67 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: 
This topic requires the active involvement, as beneficiaries, of at least 3 
Police Authorities44 and at least 2 Civil Society Organisations (or Non -
Governmental Organisations) from at least 3 different EU Member 
States or Associated Countries. For these participants, applicants must 
fill in the table “Information about security practitioners” in the 
application form with all the requested information, following the 
template provided in the submission IT tool. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 45. 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to some or all  of the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Increased understanding of policymakers and relevant security practitioners of the 
phenomenon of terrorism and lone -actor violence towards citizens in confined places 
such as schools, in the European context; 
• Terrorist and lone -actor attacks to citizens in confined places such as schools, are 
prevented in Europe by, e.g., detecting and tackling early signs of isolation and 
radicalisation, as well as the promotion of a secure and inclusive environment; 
• European schools and other confined places, e.g., places of worship, public 
administration or other buildings accessible to the public, are provided with state -of-the-
art means of ensuring their security; 
• Cooperation between Police Authorities in Europe and relevant staff (in schools, public 
administration, etc.) is improved.  
Scope: Citizens in European schools and other confined spaces (e.g., places of worship, public 
administration and other buildings accessible to the public) increasingly face various forms of 
terrorism and lone-actor violence. This topic aims at providing such places with solutions for 
ensuring civil security (of pupils, school staff, administrative workers, citizens at large) via 
exploring various societal and technological means of preventing such threats, with full 
respect of fundamental rights, such as r ights to privacy and the protection of personal data. 
Based on a thorough analysis of the phenomenon under consideration in the European 
context, proposals should look into methodologies of catching and tackling early signs of 
terrorist threats, isolation and radicalisation, taking into account the social and cultural factors 
that may influence an individual's vulnerability to radicalisation, such as gender roles and 
stereotypes. Proposals should also consider how these factors may impact the effectiveness of 
prevention programmes and of addressing them by, e.g., creating appropriate programmes, 
including by modernising approaches for prevention of terrorist and lone actor attacks. Means 
for raising awareness (possibly training) of the relevant staff (school staff, employees in 
public administration, etc., in function of the building under consideration) regarding existing 
risks and for keeping them up to date on security matters should be tackled and designed to be 
inclusive and effective for diverse groups.  Ways of improving cooperation between the 
relevant staff and Police Authorities in this context should be analysed too. Proposed 
solutions should be affordable to public schools and other structures accessible to the public 
that are usually more limited in funding. Proposals are invited from consortia involving Police 
Authorities and other relevant security practitioners, Civil Society Organisations, Non -
Governmental Organisations, and the appropriate balance of IT specialists, psychologists, 
sociologists, etc. To ensure the active involvement of and timely feedback from relevant 
security practitioners, proposals should plan a mid -term deliverable consisting in the 
assessment of the project’s mid-term outcomes, performed by the practitioners involved in the 
project. Activities proposed within this topic should address the issue from various angles, 
combining both social research with technological development and applications in a logical 
manner. 
Therefore, this topic requires the effective contribution of SSH disciplines and the 
involvement of SSH experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of relevant SSH expertise, in 
order to produce meaningful and significant effects enhancing the societal impact of the 
related research activities. 
Proposals should outline the plans to develop possible future uptake and upscaling at national 
and EU level for possible next steps once the project is finalised. Proposals should also 
consider, build on outcomes developed by EU -funded projects, such as the ones under 
HORIZON-CL3-2024-FCT-01-04 and HORIZON -CL2-2025-01-DEMOCRACY-05, and not 
duplicate previous research. If the proposals concern drug -related issues, they are expected to 
engage with the EU Drugs Agency during the lifetime of the project, including validating the 
outcomes. Coordination among the successful proposals from this topic should be envisaged 
to avoid duplication and to exploit complementarities as well as opportunities for increased 
impact. Finally, proposals are expected to address all applicable considerations expressed in 
the Introduction of the Fighting Crime and Terrorism Destination.