HORIZON-CL3-2026-01-BM-03: Reliability of age assessment methods in the context of 
security and border management 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2026 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 1.33 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 1.33 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: 
This topic requires the active involvement, as beneficiaries, of at least 2 
Border or Coast Guard Authorities from at least 2 different EU Member 
States or Associated Countries. For these participants, applicants must 
fill in the table “Information about security practitioners” in the 
application form with all the requested information, following the 
template provided in the submission IT tool. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 74. 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to some or all  of the following 
expected outcomes: 
• Improved protection of minors, including by more reliable age assessments and by 
minimising the use of intrusive age assessment methods; 
• Improved adaptation, preparedness and cooperation of authorities in the fight against 
human trafficking; 
• Expanded European-based knowledge on reliability, accuracy and effectiveness of age 
assessment methods.   
 
Scope: Many unaccompanied children and young persons arriving at the external EU borders 
and seeking asylum, lack official documents showing their identity and age. Age assessment 
methods are important as they contribute to the determination of, for example, where an 
individual will be initially housed and what services, supports, and legal processes they will 
receive to ensure protection and, if applicable, child protection. 
In other cases, minors are victim of trafficking of human beings (THB) criminal activities, 
either across the EU external borders, or within the EU borders. In other cases again, age 
assessment methods are necessary for law enforcement investigations on protecting children, 
forensic investigation, and/or the identification of victims. 
No age assessment method can offer a 100% reliability. Different approaches have different 
sensitivity and specificity, and different sample sizes and representativeness, and some 
approaches are based on a non -European knowledge base. Furthermore, there is considerable 
variation in methods of age assessment. Methods may use approaches as diverse as 
interviews, psychological assessments and other holistic approaches; medical approaches such 
as X -rays, CT scans, DNA methylation, dental observation, or other analyses; other 
approaches such as image analysis; and they may use or not artificial intelligence (AI) for data 
analysis. 
EU regulations, and guidelines by the European Union Asylum Agency (EUAA) 75, include 
safeguards and recommendations, such as that the least invasive methods should be used, and 
that medical methods should be used as a last resort. Further studies, reports or documents 
have also been elaborated by the European Migration Network 76 , European networks of 
security practitioners for innovation, as well as at national level. The action funded by this 
topic should also consider these, as well as previous research, including but not limited to 
research by other relevant EU Framework Programmes projects. 
This Coordination and Support Action should not develop methods or technologies of age 
assessment. Rather, it will analyse, including with practitioners, the current and potential 
methods for age assessment. It should assess and compare scientific reliability, sensitivity and 
specificity of different methods, as well as their potential risks for fundamental rights and how 
to minimize them. 
While the research results would not imply any legislative or policy decision on age 
assessment methods, the research will develop evidence -based results on options for more 
(compared to the state -of-the-art) appropriate models of age assessment methods that protect 
fundamental rights, ensuring the use of an inclusive approach that addresses diverse needs. 
The results of research funded by this topic will contribute to capabilities for better 
identification of children and minors in the migratory, security, border management and other 
 
contexts, following the principles of the EU Strategy on the rights of the child 77. They will 
also contribute to the exchange of practices among European authorities. 
Synergies with other Horizon Europe Cluster 3 Destinations, such as “Better protect the EU 
and its citizens against Crime and Terrorism” and “Disaster -Resilient Society for Europe”, as 
well as with Destinations of Horizon Europe Cluster 2 “Inclusive Society”.