HORIZON-CL3-2027-01-BM-01: Open topic on research and innovation for effective 
management of EU external borders that promotes fundamental rights and EU values 
Call: Civil Security for Society 2027 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 8.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: 
This topic requires the active involvement, as beneficiaries, of at least 2 
Border, Coast Guard or Customs Authorities from at least 2 different 
EU Member States or Associated countries. For these participants, 
applicants must fill in the table “Eligibility information about 
practitioners” in the application form with all the requested information, 
following the template provided in the submission IT tool. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 78. 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome : Project results are expected to contribute to the following expected 
outcome: 
• Improved border management solutions that protect and promote fundamental rights of 
both EU citizens and Third Country Nationals.   
Scope: Under this Open topic, proposals are welcome to address new, upcoming or 
unforeseen challenges and/or creative or disruptive solutions that are not covered by the other 
topics of this Destination in 2026 and 2027. 
In particular, this topic will fund research projects that explore, develop and test knowledge 
and technology solutions in the areas of border surveillance, border checks, customs and 
supply chain security, and civilian maritime and aviation security border management that 
protect and promote fundamental rights of both EU citizens and Third Country Nationals, and 
EU values. 
Adapted to the nature, scope, type and target TRL of proposed projects, proposals should 
convincingly explain how they will plan and/or carry out demonstration, testing and 
validation of developed tools and solutions. Proposals should be convincing in explaining the 
methods they intend to use for demonstrating, testing and validating the proposed tools and 
solutions ensuring that the intersectional perspectives of diverse groups, including gender, 
sex, age, disabilities, race or ethnicity, sexual orientation and migrant status are integrated and 
considered. Proposals should also delineate the plans to develop possible future follow -up 
research and development and/or uptake, upscaling and/or application and use at national and 
EU level as possible next steps after the research project. 
 
Research proposals should consider, build on if appropriate and not duplicate previous 
research, including but is not limited to research by other Framework Programmes’ projects.