HORIZON-CL4-2026-SPACE-03-31: Digital enablers and building -blocks for Earth 
Observation and Satellite telecommunication for Space solutions (Space Partnership) 
Call: SPACE 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 6.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
project appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
In order to achieve the expected outcomes, and safeguard the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, and security, it is important to 
avoid a situation of technological dependency on a non -EU source, in a 
global context that requires the EU to take action to build on its 
strengths, and to carefully assess and address any strategic weaknesses, 
vulnerabilities and high -risk dependencies which put at risk the 
attainment of its ambitions. For this reason, participation is limited to 
legal entities established in Member States, Iceland and Norway and the 
following additional associated countries: Canada, New -Zealand, 
United Kingdom and Switzerland. In addition, entities established in 
third countries which may become associated to Horizon Europe during 
2026 and 2027 may be eligible to participate in this topic if the third 
country is identified for this topic as an eligible country in the List of 
Participating Countries in Horizon Europe at the time of submission of 
the application 150 . In any case, the association agreement to the 
Programme must apply by the time of the signature of the grant 
agreement. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed in the paragraph 
above, in order to guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of 
the Union and its Member States, entities established in an eligible 
country listed above, but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a 
non-eligible country or by a non -eligible country entity, may not 
participate in the action unless it can be demonstrated, by means of 
guarantees positively assessed by their eligible country of 
establishment, that their participation to the action would not negatively 
impact the Union’s strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security. 
Entities assessed as high -risk suppliers of mobile network 
communication equipment within the meaning of ‘restrictions for the 
 
protection of European communication networks’ (or entities fully or 
partially owned or controlled by a high -risk supplier) cannot submit 
guarantees.151 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 -5 by the end of the project. 
The reference TRL definition is the ISO 16290:2013 applicable to the 
space sector.  
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced portfolio covering all the development areas 
described in the scope section, grants will be awarded to applications 
not only in order of ranking but at least also to one proposal that is the 
highest ranked within each development area, provided that the 
applications attain all thresholds 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 152. 
 
Expected Outcome: The topic encompasses actions within the scope of the co -programmed 
European Partnership on Globally Competitive Space Systems (‘Space Partnership’) in the 
areas of satellite communication (SatCom), Earth Observation (EO) and New Commercial 
Space Transportation Solutions and is part of cohesive activities in the domain of digital 
developments under the grand heading of “digitalisation for commercial space solutions”. 
 
Digitalisation is a major enabler for enhancing the value of an End -to-End EO and SatCom 
system. Under the area of Using Space on Earth  related to SatCom and EO, below this topic 
focus on the fast increment of the Low to Mid TRL level building blocks for key 
technologies153 required to strengthen competitiveness in these domains. 
Projects are expected to contribute to one or several of the following outcomes: 
• New commercial services and applications enabled by increased digitalisation of space 
solutions; 
• Favouring a competitive and sustainable European Space Sector; 
• Enable the European Space Industry to maintain a significant share of the global 
connectivity market; 
• Next generation Earth observation and SatCom payloads, technologies and processing 
means (on ground and in space); 
• Security of SatCom and EO services, supporting next -generation technologies for both 
ground and space commercial applications; 
• Improved access to satellite data through interoperable systems.   
This will contribute to developing, deploying global, more flexible and reactive space -based 
services applications, to contribute to fostering the EU's space sector competitiveness, as 
stated in the expected impact of this destination. 
Scope: The areas of R&I, which needs to be addressed to tackle the above -mentioned 
expected outcomes are: 
• R&I on End -to-End SatCom Mission capabilities for current and future satellite 
networks interoperability including both space and ground -based assets, and digital on -
ground infrastructure to test and enhance operational efficiency; 
• R&I on Earth Observation equipment, subsystems, applications and services, improving 
the End-to-End timeliness of an EO system and enhanced resolution, miniaturisation of 
instrument designs and digital techniques and technologies to support operations and 
harmonisation enabling interoperability among multiple EO missions; 
• R&I on building blocks and processes common to EO and SatCom systems, such system 
resources usage optimisation, high -performance processing payload H/W to support 
space network capabilities including an improvement in downlink and tasking 
capabilities of the European infrastructure, RF and optical hybrid ground stations for 
anchoring services and quantum technologies adaptation for space application.   
 
Proposals may contribute to one or more of the above R&I areas, however the main area 
addressed must be clearly and unambiguously identified in the proposal text.  
Proposals are expected to promote cooperation between different actors (industry, SMEs, 
research institutions and infrastructures and academia) and consider opportunities to quickly 
turn technological innovation into commercial use in space. 
It is expected that projects make use of existing EU technologies and/or building blocks, 
including at component level, contributing to EU non -dependence and strengthen 
competitiveness, and this should be clearly presented in the proposal. Furthermore, proposed 
activities should be complementary to H2020 and Horizon Europe funded projects, national 
activities and activities funded by the European Space Agency (ESA). 
This topic contributes to the implementation of the European Partnership on ‘Globally 
Competitive Space Systems’ (GCSS).  
In this topic, the integration of the gender dimension (sex and gender analysis) in research and 
innovation content should be addressed only if relevant in relation to the objectives of the 
research effort.