HORIZON-CL4-2026-05-DIGITAL-EMERGING-02: Next -Generation AI Agents for 
Real-World Applications in the Apply AI sectors (RIA) (Partnership in AI, Data and 
Robotics) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 19.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a proposal 
requesting different amounts. 
Indicative 
budget 
The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 38.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to achieve the expected outcomes, and safeguard the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, and security, it is important to avoid 
a situation of technological dependency on a non -EU source, in a global 
context that requires the EU to take action to build on its strengths, and to 
carefully assess and address any strategic weaknesses, vulnerabilities and 
high-risk dependencies which put at risk the attainment of its ambitions. 
For this reason, participation is limited to legal entities established in 
Member States, Iceland and Norway and the following additional 
associated countries: Canada, Israel, Republic of Korea, New Zealand, 
Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. In addition, entities established in 
third countries which may become associated to Horizon Europe during 
2026 and 2027 may be eligible to participate in this topic if the third 
country is identified for this topic as an eligible country in the List of 
Participating Countries in Horizon Europe at the time of submission of the 
application100. In any case, the association agreement to the Programme 
must apply by the time of the signature of the grant agreement. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed in the paragraph 
above, in order to guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of the 
Union and its Member States, entities established in an eligible country 
listed above, but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a non -
eligible country or by a non -eligible country entity, may not participate in 
the action unless it can be demonstrated, by means of guarantees 
positively assessed by their eligible country of establishment, that their 
participation to the action would not negatively impact the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security. Entities assessed as high -
risk suppliers of mobile network communication equipment within the 
meaning of ‘restrictions for the protection of European communication 
 
networks’ (or entities fully or partially owned or controlled by a high -risk 
supplier) cannot submit guarantees.101 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 2 and achieve TRL 5 by the end of 
the project – see General Annex B. 
 
Expected Outcome: While today’s AI agents still have limited capabilities, advances in model 
architecture, memory, reasoning, and autonomous behaviour are paving the way to unlocking 
their potential across economic sectors. The Apply AI Strategy 102acknowledges this trend and 
the need to advance research on next -generation AI agents. Project results are expected to 
contribute to some of the following expected outcomes:  
• Significant improvements in the autonomy, robustness and reliability of AI agents 
through advanced planning mechanisms, memory management, and reasoning 
capabilities. 
• Innovative multi-agent frameworks and protocols demonstrating effective decentralized 
coordination and collaboration among multiple AI agents beyond the capabilities of 
individual agents.  
Scope: Next-generation AI agents are autonomous systems powered by large AI language 
models (e.g., large language models or large multimodal models), that can plan, utilize tools 
and perform actions autonomously to achieve specified goals based on high-level instructions. 
The large AI model acts as the agent's "brain," capable of interpreting instructions, generating 
plans, and using tools. This capability enables agents to autonomously plan and adapt 
behaviour in real -time to accomplish complex, multi -step tasks. AI Agents hold significant 
promise in numerous applications areas such as data analytics and coding. 
Effective AI agents require careful design, incorporating structured planning and reasoning 
methods to manage complex tasks, and be equipped with appropriate validation and 
monitoring techniques. Multi -agent collaboration frameworks further enhance capabilities by 
enabling structured interactions among multiple agents. 
Key aspects in designing effective AI agents include robust planning, reasoning, and search 
mechanisms that allow agents to approach complex tasks by breaking them down into 
 
structured subgoals. Effective memory and state management are necessary to maintaining 
coherent long -term interactions, achieved through a balanced integration of short -term and 
external long -term memory solutions. Moreover, integrating external tools and APIs is 
essential for overcoming limitations in large AI models, enhancing agent performance in tasks 
requiring accuracy and reliability. 
Potential research areas include enhancing AI agent autonomy through advanced self -
planning and self-optimization capabilities, enabling agents to improve their decision -making 
and strategic planning. Other research directions include innovation in memory-augmented AI 
agents to facilitate robust long -term reasoning and lifelong learning; developing advanced 
multi-agent frameworks specifically tailored for collaborative agents, including research on 
AI agent frameworks based on mixed AI architectures, and advancing multimodal reasoning 
capabilities to enable real-world applications. 
All proposals are expected to incorporate mechanisms for assessing and demonstrating 
progress, including qualitative and quantitative KPIs, benchmarking, and progress monitoring. 
When possible, proposals should build on and reuse public results from relevant previous 
funded actions. Communicable results should be shared with the European R&D community 
through the AI-on-demand platform. 
Projects selected in this topic should link to the resources offered by the AI Factories, 
including the Data Labs. The results may be validated in the Testing and Experiment 
Facilities and further deployed via the European Digital Innovation Hubs (EDIHs) and will 
contribute to the Apply AI strategy. 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on AI, data, and robotics 
(ADRA), and all proposals are expected to allocate tasks for cohesion activities with ADRA 
and the CSA HORIZON -CL4-2025-03-HUMAN-18: GenAI4EU central Hub. Proposals 
should also build on or seek collaboration with relevant projects and develop synergies with 
other relevant International, European, national, or regional initiatives.