HORIZON-CL4-2026-04-DATA-02: Open Internet Stack Sovereign Solutions (RIA) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
7.00 and 10.25 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 20.50 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP). The 
support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 400 000 to 
allow 1/ cases where a given legal entity may receive FSTP under 
several grants (e.g. from different calls) 2/ reaching the maturity level 
for third party’s project to ensure sustainability with multiple awards. 
FSTP may comprise up to a maximum of 80% of the total requested EU 
contribution. 
 
Expected Outcome : The overall expected outcome is a large selection of Open -Source 
solutions that will be organised under the Open Internet Stack framework built under WP 
2025. This will address the needs of both supply and demand side of the rich and diverse eco -
system of 3C European providers and verticals. This topic will stimulate the emergence at 
European and global scale of solutions that are: 
• Open source and made in Europe, supporting trust, and sovereignty, and delivering 
credible alternative choices for citizens, governments and companies including start -ups 
and SMEs. 
• Paced for easy deployment by the rich European eco -systems of providers, integrators 
and verticals. 
• Interoperable, standard-based, decentralised solutions for enabling network effect.  
Scope: Proposals should address one or several of the following technology areas: 
• Network and Transport technologies including for example routing and virtual private 
networks, survivable mesh technologies. 
• Sovereign operating systems and firmware (including smartphones). 
• Open Source software productivity and supply chain technologies such as federated 
forges, independent and cross-platform development framework.  
Applicants should devise a plan for ensuring that the solutions are designed for efficient 
deployment, with pre -configured, modular components that facilitate integration by a wide 
range of users, including SMEs, public administrations, research and education and service 
providers. 
Applicants should detail development, integration, testing, deployment, uptake and operation 
activities. Focus will be on Open Source solutions and their integration and adoption in 
vertical use cases, to ensure replicability of the results and portability in different areas. 
Proposals are expected to demonstrate: 
• That the proposed solution(s) has(ve) the technical maturity in terms of scalability, 
resiliency, advanced cryptographic protection (e.g. against emerging quantum threats via 
post-quantum cryptography), alignment with standards including for software and 
hardware supply chain and efficiency including environmental. 
• That there is a community with critical mass that actively supports the development with 
or without associated business model. 
• Evidence of use cases, interest and engagement from users and deployers of the solution. 
• Credible path to be part of the Open Internet Stack in terms of cataloguing, searchability, 
availability through app-stores and alignment with EU regulation.  
Applicants should detail any relevant previous projects on which the project will expand. 
Applicants should detail their plan to creating synergies with other topics such as those in the 
WP25 Open Internet Stack, 3C, Virtual Worlds/Web4.0 as well as like -minded initiatives on 
the same solution perimeter. 
Proposals should also detail their strategy for maintenance, cataloguing, marketing, 
communication as well as the relationship with to the “Open Internet Stack Support for Scale” 
topic. 
Beneficiaries that intend to transfer ownership or grant an exclusive licence must formally 
notify the granting authority (i.e. DG -CNECT and HaDEA) before the intended transfer or 
licensing takes place and the granting authority may up to four years after the end of the 
action object to a transfer of ownership or the exclusive licensing of results. 
Financial support to third parties 
If applicants opt for financial support to third parties, they should primarily target calls 
towards internet innovators and adopters of Open Source technologies. Applicants should 
provide the programme logic for the third -party projects, managing the projects lifecycle, and 
provide the necessary technical and non-technical support: these tasks cannot be implemented 
using the budget earmarked for the financial support to third parties.