HORIZON-CL4-2027-04-DIGITAL-EMERGING-06: International cooperation in AI 
(IA) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 1.50 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 3.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 5 and achieve TRL 7 by the end 
of the project – see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 120. 
 
 
Expected Outcome : Project results are expected to contribute to one of the following 
outcomes: 
• Faster uptake of tailored and enhanced AI solutions at innovation hubs  in low - and 
middle-income countries by training and optimising them with local data and applied 
research. 
• Easier large -scale deployment of local AI solutions in low and middle -income 
countries by increasing the efficiency of system demonstration in relevant, 
operational environments. 
• Strengthened local innovation ecosystems that foster sustainable socio -economic 
impact by addressing key societal challenges in areas such as education, healthcare, 
agriculture, and environmental sustainability.  
Scope: System prototype, testing, validation, and demonstration in operational environment 
aligned to EU initiatives, such as the International Digital Strategy for the EU 121 and the AI 
Continent Action Plan 122, to strengthen local AI ecosystems in African countries fostering 
responsible AI development, north -south digital cooperation on AI, and sustainable AI 
innovation. 
The main goal is to support the digital transition and foster inclusive economic and social 
transformation of partners globally by adapting and applying innovative solutions, research 
areas and capabilities developed in Europe to low- and middle-income countries. 
This Innovation Action will focus on accelerating the uptake of and access to AI solutions by 
local innovation hubs in these countries, better enabling their practical implementation and 
future market deployment in operational environments. Proposals should consider synergies 
and complementarity of ongoing research and innovation activities in the policy areas of 
international partnerships, digital and infrastructure like the Digital for Development Hub 123 
and AI for Public Good 124, and may follow an approach like Living Labs. Proposals should 
also support the European Union’s Global Gateway strategy to boost smart, clean, and secure 
connections in digital, energy and transport sectors, and to strengthen health, education and 
research systems across the world. Proposals should enable AI technologies that are locally 
relevant and sustainable, empower local communities and platforms, and reflect the EU’s 
emphasis on sustainable and resilient global partnerships. 
The proposals must support digital partnerships and international digital cooperation to 
promote an approach to AI that enhances human well-being and societal progress through: 
• Support for gathering of and access to local data in line with EU’s data strategy for the 
training and optimisation of existing AI algorithms developed in initiatives like AI for 
Public Good and GenAI for Africa. 
 
• Establishment and support of Living Labs within local innovation hubs in low -income 
countries, fostering co -creation spaces where community members, researchers, 
entrepreneurs, and policymakers can collaboratively tailor, enhance, test, and iterate AI -
driven solutions. These Living Labs will serve as platforms for experiential learning, 
inclusive participation, and sustainable technology adoption. 
• Tailored and contextualized AI -based solutions developed through a bottom -up 
approach, driven by the specific needs of low -income communities. These solutions will 
be trained and adapted using local data sources, enabling meaningful knowledge transfer 
and empowering local stakeholders with relevant and actionable technologies. 
• Contribution, where possible, to solving global sustainable development challenges, 
especially climate and agriculture, biodiversity, health and humanitarian needs, 
education. 
• Fostering an enabling innovation environment with reinforced talent pipelines and 
technological transfer of AI algorithms and solutions to local innovation hub. 
• Full testing and validation of the solutions in real -life with scenarios and initial support 
to large-scale deployment in low and middle-income countries.  
Capitalise from existing EU initiatives like the call GenAI for Africa from HE WP25, the 
Global Gateway, and Smart Africa to up -scale the deployment of solutions in low -income 
countries. 
Beneficiaries that intend to transfer ownership or grant an exclusive licence must formally 
notify the granting authority (i.e. DG -CNECT and HaDEA) before the intended transfer or 
licensing takes place and the granting authority may up to four years after the end of the 
action object to a transfer of ownership or the exclusive licensing of results.