HORIZON-CL4-2027-04-DIGITAL-EMERGING-10: Horizon scanning and foresight 
in future enabling digital technologies (CSA) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 4.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 133. 
 
Expected Outcome:   
• European leadership in foresight activities on future enabling technologies and their 
transformational potential in industrial, societal and environmental terms. 
• Increased collaboration between academia, industry players and other relevant 
stakeholders in iterative and multidisciplinary approaches for co -creating the enabling 
technologies of the future. 
• Alignment with national or regional initiatives creating an expanding innovation 
ecosystem, anchored in local contexts across Europe, for selected emerging 
technologies. 
• Accelerating the pick-up of novel advanced technology by industry and society.  
Scope: Proposals should establish a forum for emerging interdisciplinary areas and new 
technological visions. 
Proposals should enable and support a broad range of participants (across disciplines in 
science and engineering, RTOs, industry sectors, stakeholders) to meet, mutually inspire, 
cooperate and develop together innovative ideas for future enabling digital technologies 
covering from fundamental research up to proof of concept. 
Proposals should involve and be driven by representatives of the relevant actors of the field 
(e.g., academia, RTOs, industry including SMEs). 
Proposals should consider civil society engagement for seeking wider input. 
Proposals should connect with analogous EC -internal activities, either ongoing (e.g. 
FOSI4EIC involving EISMEA and JRC) or foreseen, such as the Competitiveness 
Coordination Tool and the technology observatory envisaged in the FP10 regulation. 
Beneficiaries that intend to transfer ownership or grant an exclusive licence must formally 
notify the granting authority (i.e. DG -CNECT and HaDEA) before the intended transfer or 
 
licensing takes place and the granting authority may up to four years after the end of the 
action object to a transfer of ownership or the exclusive licensing of results.