HORIZON-CL4-2027-02-DIGITAL-EMERGING-52-two-stage: New approaches for 
Human/AI collaboration for the workforce of the future (RIA) (Made in Europe and AI, 
Data and Robotics partnerships) 
Call: INDUSTRY-two-stage 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
4.00 and 6.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 30.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Applicants submitting a proposal for a blind evaluation (see General 
Annex F) must not disclose their organisation names, acronyms, logos 
nor names of personnel in the proposal abstract and Part B of their first-
stage application (see General Annex E). 
In order to include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined 
in the introduction to Destination 'Leadership in materials and 
production for Europe', the page limit in part B of the General Annexes 
is exceptionally extended by 3 pages (for second-stage proposals). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 4 -5 and achieve TRL 6 by the 
end of the project – see General Annex B.  
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The first-stage proposals of this topic will be evaluated blindly. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 136. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
• Industrial jobs are transformed through AI-based human-machine interactions (and skills 
linked to them) which enhance flexibility, inclusion, well -being, up -skilling, career 
evolution and knowledge sharing; 
• Increased competitiveness and sustainability of advanced manufacturing industries by 
means of knowledge formalization and adaptability of the machines to workers and 
markets based on different cultures.  
Scope: Innovative AI approaches are poised to revolutionise human -machine collaboration in 
factories by fostering an environment where technology and human expertise synergistically 
enhance each other. AI can enhance the value of the companies by capturing and formalising 
the knowledge which is dispersed and not explicit. This allows companies to really own the 
knowledge and use it to reduce the onboarding time of new employees and support personnel 
upskilling to adapt to the evolving technological landscape. AI has a great potential to make 
task simpler by reducing the complexity offering intuitive interfaces and real -time feedback 
allowing workforce to be more efficient and effective while facilitating access to more 
complex tasks including those involving various forms of planning. AI can also adapt the 
interaction of automation with the worker taking into account particular needs of the human, 
including adaptation to the different abilities of the workers and facilitating inclusion. Finally, 
AI can be used to allow easier export of automation produced in EU by facilitating its 
interaction with workforce having different cultures adapting the interaction of the machines 
to the different needs. 
Proposals should produce dedicated innovative AI approaches for human -machine 
collaboration in advanced manufacturing to be applied in at least two of following fields: 
• Human-AI Co -Learning and knowledge capture to share competences, capture expert 
knowledge, provide interactive mentoring to up -skill the workforce, and support re -
qualification and continuous training – leading to increased knowledge at factory level 
and avoiding loss of know-how. 
• Human-AI teamwork thanks to innovative natural interaction models (considering the 
e.g. related hardware interfaces and/or collaborative machine tools), enabling to control 
 
complexity in cognitive cooperating production systems, including planning activities at 
shop floor level. 
• Interfaces with automation which automatically adapt to the need of the humans 
including different abilities and different cultural needs.  
Proposals should integrate a gender perspective and avoid any type of discrimination in the 
design and deployment of AI systems and human -machine interaction models, including 
addressing differences in user needs, such as needs of persons with disabilities, physical and 
cognitive ergonomics and training pathways. Proposals are also expected to identify and 
address other potential biases in AI systems to promote inclusive design that ensures safe and 
effective use by all workers. Human/AI collaboration requires utmost sensitivity to and 
consideration of human values and consideration of ethical principles as represented in Digital 
Humanism, therefore, appropriate consideration must also be given to the contribution of 
SSH. 
This topic is linked to the Apply AI Strategy, therefore proposals should seek collaboration 
with relevant initiatives. 
In addition, proposals are invited to build on the results of past projects on Extended Reality 
Technologies (XR), such as HORIZON -CL4-2021-HUMAN-01-13, HORIZON -CL4-2021-
HUMAN-01-14, HORIZON -CL4-2021-HUMAN-01-25, HORIZON -CL4-2021-HUMAN-
01-06, HORIZON-CL4-2021-HUMAN-01-28. 
Proposals should include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined in the 
introduction to Destination ‘Leadership in materials and production for Europe’. 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnerships Made in Europe and AI, 
Data and Robotics.