HORIZON-CL4-2027-04-DIGITAL-EMERGING-11: EU Frontier AI Initiative:  
Developing frontier AI solutions that are safe and computationally efficient within 
Apply AI (RIA) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 44.00 
contribution per 
project 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a proposal 
requesting different amounts. 
Indicative 
budget 
The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 44.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to achieve the expected outcomes, and safeguard the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, and security, it is important to avoid 
a situation of technological dependency on a non -EU source, in a global 
context that requires the EU to take action to build on its strengths, and to 
carefully assess and address any strategic weaknesses, vulnerabilities and 
high-risk dependencies which put at risk the attainment of its ambitions. 
For this reason, participation is limited to legal entities establ ished in 
Member States, Iceland and Norway and the following additional 
associated countries: Canada, Israel, Republic of Korea, New Zealand, 
Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. In addition, entities established in 
third countries which may become associated to Horizon Europe during 
2026 and 2027 may be eligible to participate in this topic if the third 
country is identified for this topic as an eligible country in the List of 
Participating Countries in Horizon Europe at the time of submission of the 
application97. In any case, the association agreement to the Programme 
must apply by the time of the signature of the grant agreement. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed in the paragraph 
above, in order to guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of the 
Union and its Member States, entities established in an eligible country 
listed above, but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a non -
eligible country or by a non -eligible country entity, may not participate in 
the action unless it can be demonstrated, by means of guarantees 
positively assessed by their eligible country of establishment, that their 
participation to the action would not negatively impact the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security. Entities assessed as high -
risk suppliers of mobile network communication equipment within the 
meaning of ‘restrictions for the protection of European communication 
 
networks’ (or entities fully or partially owned or controlled by a high -risk 
supplier) cannot submit guarantees.98 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 2 and achieve TRL 4 by the end of 
the project – see General Annex B. 
 
Expected Outcome: The Apply AI Strategy99 also seeks to bolster EU capabilities and achieve 
excellence in AI to support the development of European frontier models. As part of the 
Frontier AI Initiative, which brings together Europe’s leading actors in the field, this topic 
will support the development of sovereign frontier AI ensuring safety by design. This topic 
directly contributes to the Apply AI Strategy. Project results are expected to contribute to all 
of the following expected outcomes: 
• Strengthened European capabilities in the development of frontier AI models. 
• Improved computational efficiency of frontier AI models, resulting in reduced 
computational costs. 
• Enhanced safety of advanced AI systems based on frontier AI models through the 
development and implementation of safe-by-design principles and/or AI agents acting as 
safety evaluators.  
Scope: To advance developments of frontier AI models towards highest -level performance, 
while ensuring energy efficiency, addressing computational constraints, and strengthening 
safety. The approach of this topic is twofold. First, it aims to advance the AI field through the 
development and training of a frontier AI model. The AI model should demonstrate state -of-
the-art performance, have multimodal capabilities, and be optimized for agentic AI 
capabilities such as tool use, reasoning, and autonomous problem -solving. Second, this topic 
supports research on comprehensive methods to reduce the computational demands of frontier 
AI models and to ensure their safety, including technical methodologies such as automated 
testing and interpretability. 
The primary drivers behind computational efficient AI systems are the urgent challenges 
posed by the growing energy footprint of AI and current computational limitations. Modern 
AI models, especially frontier AI models, require substantial computational resources, with a 
 
significant impact in the environment. Additionally, they create barriers to entry to those 
interested in advancing the AI field. Key research areas include compression and distillation 
techniques aimed at reducing the complexity of large AI models. Innovations in AI 
architectures are also relevant, with a focus on innovative models that significantly lower 
computational demands for training and inference. Further, algorithmic approaches aimed at 
minimizing computational load during pre -training, post -training, and inference can also be 
considered. 
Ensuring the safety of AI systems is essential, especially as AI models become increasingly 
sophisticated and pervasive. Potential research areas to be considered include addressing 
misalignment, particularly the unintentional misalignment of large AI models. Work in this 
area could explore methods to detect and mitigate sophisticated misbehaviour, such as 
alignment faking, reward hacking of human oversight, and encoded reasoning in chain -of-
thought (CoT). Additionally, research could focus on enhancing robustness against 
adversarial attacks, jailbreaks, and backdoors. Further potential areas for innovation include 
advancing AI models transparency and interpretability. Safety research could also consider 
risks that may arise when embedding frontier models within agentic AI frameworks, 
significantly contributing to the trust and safe adoption of powerful AI solutions. 
This topic contributes to the EU Frontier AI initiative. The project should establish strong 
links with the Resource for AI Science in Europe (RAISE), ensuring that its priorities inform 
the research topics addressed. Activities are expected to involve the European AI research 
community and attract and retain top AI talent working on frontier models and related areas. 
All proposals are expected to incorporate mechanisms for assessing and demonstrating 
progress, including qualitative and quantitative KPIs, benchmarking, and progress monitoring. 
When possible, proposals should build on and reuse public results from relevant previous 
funded actions. Communicable results should be shared with the European R&D community 
through the AI-on-demand platform. 
The project selected in this topic should link to the resources offered by the AI Factories and 
the Data Labs. Where relevant, it could also establish links with European companies 
developing frontier AI models. 
All proposals are expected to allocate tasks for cohesion activities with the European 
Partnership on AI, data, and robotics (ADRA) and the CSA HORIZON -CL4-2025-03-
HUMAN-18: GenAI4EU central Hub. 
Apply AI 
Proposals are invited against the following topic(s):