HORIZON-CL4-2026-01-MAT-PROD-41: Enhancing industry-academia knowledge 
exchange in Social Sciences and Humanities (SSH) (CSA) 
Call: INDUSTRY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 1.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 2.00 million. 
 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 50. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
• Increased innovation capabilities for industry by harnessing the potential of Social 
Sciences and Humanities, including the Arts, to provide effective solutions to companies' 
research and innovation challenges and organisational development. 
• Improved strategies to bring new products and technologies to the industry environment 
and ultimately to the market. 
• By facilitating industry exposure, SSH researchers’ better understanding of industry 
needs and opportunities for collaboration.   
Scope: This action aims to leverage the strengths of social sciences, humanities and arts 
(SSH) to address companies' specific needs, fostering a dynamic and productive industry -
academia co-creation for knowledge valorisation. This action will implement SSH –industry 
co-creation (for example hackathons, team -based approaches, targeted mentorship and 
exchange programmes etc) focussing on specific challenges from industry and SMEs 
including, but not limited to understanding the socio -technical implications of new 
technologies and innovations, broadening the perspectives of companies’ strategic actions, 
creating a deeper understanding of customer needs, legal requirements and pathways to the 
market, strengthening the integration of social, economic and cultural inequality 
considerations into industry practices and innovation processes, developing new ideas and 
innovations and contributing to organisational development, sustainability and long -term 
profitability.  
The action will cover the following activities: 
 
• Developing a methodology for understanding how various needs from industry, SMEs 
and customers can be addressed by knowledge exchanges with SSH researchers and 
students. 
• Service to industry and SMEs including spinoffs and startups to support solving 
company challenges with international teams of SSH researchers and students. 
• A study to tackle the key questions concerning the technical and conceptual feasibility of 
Industry-Academia knowledge exchange with SSH to improve innovation management 
and organisational development.