HORIZON-CL4-2027-05-DIGITAL-EMERGING-03: Advanced integrated photonic 
devices for extended features and ultra -low power consumption (RIA) (Photonics 
Partnership) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
3.00 and 5.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 25.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to achieve the expected outcomes, and safeguard the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, and security, it is important to 
avoid a situation of technological dependency on a non -EU source, in a 
global context that requires the EU to take action to build on its 
strengths, and to carefully assess and address any strategic weaknesses, 
vulnerabilities and high -risk dependencies which put at risk the 
attainment of its ambitions. For this reason, participation is limited to 
legal entities establ ished in Member States, Iceland and Norway, 
associated countries, OECD countries and MERCOSUR countries. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed in the paragraph 
above, in order to guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of 
the Union and its Member States, entities established in an eligible 
country listed above, but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a 
non-eligible country or by a non -eligible country entity, shall not 
participate in the action. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 3 and achieve TRL 6 by the end 
of the project – see General Annex B. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 132. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
• Advanced integrated photonic devices and circuits with enhanced functionality and 
performance enabling wider application across multiple sectors including digital, 
automotive, industrial, health and security 
• Reinforced competitiveness of EU photonics actors by demonstrating advancements in 
representative system configurations and validating real-world applicability 
• Significantly improved performance of electro -optic systems in applications such as 
communication, computing, sensing, medical diagnostics, data processing, AI supporting 
the introduction of photonic elements into such systems 
• Low power consumption sensors with increased performance in application domains  
Scope: R&I should enhance the functionality, efficiency, and integration of photonic devices 
and circuits with a focus extended system performance. Action should address at least two of 
the following aspects. 
• Enhanced performance through improved spectral purity, wavelength coverage, output 
power and noise characteristics. 
• Increased modulation or detection speeds going beyond the capability of existing PIC 
material platforms, improved signal -processing capabilities, and integration of novel 
materials such as thin -film LiNbO3, BTO, graphene, silicon carbide, phase change 
materials and TMDCs. 
• Miniaturised, high -complexity photonic circuits (e.g. multilayer photonics, chiplets, 
multiple integrated functional elements), scalable interconnects and electronics -
photonics integration (co -packaged, heterogeneous, or monolithic) to improve 
performance, reliability, and cost-efficiency. 
• Reduction of power consumption for example through improved electrical -to-optical 
conversion, lower optical losses, devices operable at higher temperatures to reduce 
cooling needs, and low-power circuit actuation and control.  
Proposals should consider system -level impact and demonstrate advancements in 
representative configurations relevant to one or more application domains. 
 
This topic implements the co-programmed European Partnership on photonics.