HORIZON-CL4-2026-04-DIGITAL-EMERGING-14: Networking and Future 
Photonics Strategy  (CSA) (Photonics Partnership) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
3.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 3.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility conditions The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects are expected to contribute to the following outcomes: 
• Continued coordination and strategic support to the broader European photonics 
ecosystem, fostering a transparent, inclusive governance model and bottom -up roadmap 
development. 
• Strengthened engagement across the photonics ecosystem, including industry, academia, 
national platforms and end-user sectors. 
• Improved alignment of regional, national and European R&I agendas, enhancing 
coherence and impact across funding instruments. 
• Effective monitoring and steering of Partnership -funded projects towards the 
achievement of Key Performance Indicators. 
• Increased visibility of photonics as a critical enabling technology for EU priorities such 
as the digital and green transitions, industrial competitiveness and technological 
sovereignty. 
• Enhanced collaboration with other European Partnerships and strategic initiatives to 
maximise synergies and streamline efforts. 
• Improved access to private and blended finance for photonics innovation, growth and 
scale-up.  
Scope: Proposals should include: 
• Development and regular updating of the European Photonics Strategic Research and 
Innovation Agenda (SRIA) and associated roadmaps 
• Coordination and monitoring of Partnership -funded R&I and CSA projects, including 
tracking of Key Performance Indicators and recommending corrective actions where 
needed 
• Outreach, advocacy, and stakeholder engagement, including alignment with national, 
regional, and European photonics strategies and input into broader EU policy initiatives 
• Provision of a unified communication platform for the European photonics community 
and strengthened public communication on the impact of photonics 
• Facilitation of collaboration with other European Partnerships, strategic initiatives, and 
financial institutions to identify synergies and improve access to innovation financing.  
Beneficiaries that intend to transfer ownership or grant an exclusive licence must formally 
notify the granting authority (i.e. DG -CNECT and HaDEA) before the intended transfer or 
licensing takes place and the granting authority may up to four years after the end of the 
action object to a transfer of ownership or the exclusive licensing of results.