HORIZON-CL4-2027-01-MAT-PROD-03: Factory processes and automation for de - 
and re-manufacturing (RIA) (Made in Europe partnership) 
Call: INDUSTRY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
5.00 and 6.50 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 36.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined 
in the introduction to this Destination, the page limit in part B of the 
General Annexes is exceptionally extended by 3 pages. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 4 -5 and achieve TRL 6 by the 
end of the project – see General Annex B. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 38. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
• A viable industrial ecosystem for circularity in manufacturing industries emerges, 
enhancing both circularity and resilience; 
• De-manufacturing technologies and practices become available, making decisive 
contributions to a European remanufacturing industry and market; 
• Functions of products are retained, reused, upgraded or adapted through de -
manufacturing and re-manufacturing; and 
• Skills, standards and safety measures relevant to remanufacturing are developed.   
Scope: Proposals should focus on developing de -manufacturing and re -manufacturing 
technologies at the factory level, addressing at least three of the following: 
• Technologies to efficiently analyse part condition and support predictive maintenance, 
including for re -manufactured parts or components of lower value, e.g. by combining 
multimodal sensor data, AI and human inputs; 
• AI and robotic -assisted technologies, e.g. innovative end -effectors, to de -manufacture 
products and components, including handling, sorting and extended logistics; 
• Model-based systems, to allow de -manufacturing and re-manufacturing operators to use 
CAD data and digital twins related to the original parts (and contribute to the 
development of a digital ecosystem); 
• Solutions allowing local (on -site) repair or re -manufacturing of high -added value 
components (applied to e.g. wind turbines, aircraft and vessels); and 
• Solutions to plan the sequence of operations based on the characteristics of the incoming 
products to be re-manufactured.   
Proposals should include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined in the 
introduction to this Destination. Depending on the approaches to be pursued, these should 
consider the best solutions to enhance adoption, for example coupling manufacturing with de -
/re- manufacturing plants, product and component value, risk mitigation for variable de -/re-
manufacturing flows. 
This topic implements the co-programmed European Partnership Made in Europe. 
 
