HORIZON-CL4-2027-04-DATA-03: New approaches for decentralized, federated and 
sustainable AI data processing (RIA) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 17.50 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a proposal 
requesting different amounts. 
Indicative 
budget 
The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 35.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to achieve the expected outcomes, and safeguard the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, and security, it is important to avoid 
a situation of technological dependency on a non -EU source, in a global 
context that requires the EU to take action to build on its strengths, and to 
carefully assess and address any strategic weaknesses, vulnerabilities and 
high-risk dependencies which put at risk the attainment of its ambitions. 
For this reason, participation is limited to legal entities establ ished in 
Member States, Iceland and Norway and the following additional 
associated countries: Canada, Israel, Republic of Korea, New Zealand, 
Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. In addition, entities established in 
third countries which may become associated to Horizon Europe during 
2026 and 2027 may be eligible to participate in this topic if the third 
country is identified for this topic as an eligible country in the List of 
Participating Countries in Horizon Europe at the time of submission of the 
application93. In any case, the association agreement to the Programme 
must apply by the time of the signature of the grant agreement. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed in the paragraph 
 
above, in order to guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of the 
Union and its Member States, entities established in an eligible country 
listed above, but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a non -
eligible country or by a non -eligible country entity, may not participate in 
the action unless it can be demonstrated, by means of guarantees 
positively assessed by their eligible country of establishment, that their 
participation to the action would not negatively impact the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security. Entities assessed as high -
risk suppliers of mobile network communication equipment within the 
meaning of ‘restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks’ (or entities fully or partially owned or controlled by a high -risk 
supplier) cannot submit guarantees.94 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 3 and achieve TRL 6 -7 by the end 
of the project – see General Annex B. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to developing new approaches, 
tools and techniques that overcome the obstacles of today's centralised AI compute 
techniques: limits in the availability of energy and AI compute capacity in centralised 
standalone environments, limited availability of types of AI chips, data quality and security 
and latency in AI data processing. The ultimate objective is to help overcome EU’s AI 
compute capacity bottlenecks by offering alternative decentralised and sustainable AI 
compute models that enable exploitation of diverse hardware processing architectures and 
scaling approaches. 
Scope: This topic focusses on technologies and techniques that enable AI data processing to 
leverage distributed compute resources across the cloud and edge computing continuum 
throughout the whole AI model lifecycle from data collection, training, fine -tuning, and 
deployment. To overpass today’s state of the art in the area, the considered research areas 
include: 
• To research on distributed, decentralised, and federated “compute continuum” enabled 
AI architectures beyond federated learning and integrating model compression tools and 
new mechanisms to enable AI data processing to scale across multiple and diverse 
computing infrastructures. 
 
• Development, deployment, and operation of AI workflows across heterogeneous and 
distributed infrastructures along the compute continuum (edge, cloud, HPC), including 
the possibility of incorporating innovative computing paradigms (neuromorphic and 
quantum computing) and hardware efficiency enhancements ((e.g., including in -memory 
computing, and hardware and software approximation). 
• Novel methods and techniques to improve data availability and consistency for 
decentralised AI data processing. These consider tools to ensure data quality (e.g. 
prevention of data sets imbalance or inconsistency across distributed data sources), 
volume optimisation for data transfers across environments, and distributed data 
management, all while preserving data privacy and preventing data leaks (e.g. via 
advanced cryptographic protection such as post -quantum cryptography for resistance to 
emerging quantum threats). 
• New tools and mechanisms to measure, monitor and improve end -to-end energy 
efficiency and sustainability of AI data processing across the compute continuum, 
including the exploration of energy and sustainability implications of the heterogeneous 
AI processing architectures and their impact in the compute infrastructure design and 
long-term sustainability.  
Successful project proposals should showcase proposed developments in at least two 
complementary use cases in different domains. These use cases should demonstrate the value 
gained and potential impact of project achievements in real -world situations, as well as 
address key applications and sectors critical to Europe's competitiveness. Use cases should 
provide compelling examples and scenarios and cater for the reproducibility of results' added 
value and impact in additional economic sectors.