HORIZON-CL4-2026-04-DIGITAL-EMERGING-19: Challenge -Driven GenAI4EU 
Booster in Apply AI prioritised sectors (RIA) (AI/Data/Robotics Partnership) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
15.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 45.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to achieve the expected outcomes, and safeguard the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, and security, it is important to 
avoid a situation of technological dependency on a non -EU source, in a 
global context that requires the EU to take action to build on its 
strengths, and to carefully assess and address any strategic weaknesses, 
vulnerabilities and high -risk dependencies which put at risk the 
attainment of its ambitions. For this reason, participation is limited to 
legal entities established in Member States, Iceland and Norway and the 
following additional associated countries: Canada, Israel, Republic of 
Korea, New Zealand, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. In addition, 
entities established in third countries which may become associated to 
Horizon Europe d uring 2026 and 2027 may be eligible to participate in 
this topic if the third country is identified for this topic as an eligible 
country in the List of Participating Countries in Horizon Europe at the 
time of submission of the application 106. In any case, the association 
agreement to the Programme must apply by the time of the signature of 
the grant agreement. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed in the paragraph 
above, in order to guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of 
the Union and its Member States, entities established in an eligible 
country listed above, but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a 
non-eligible country or by a non -eligible country entity, may not 
participate in the action unless it can be demonstrated, by means of 
guarantees positively assessed by their eligible country of establishment, 
that their pa rticipation to the action would not negatively impact the 
Union’s strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security. Entities 
assessed as high -risk suppliers of mobile network communication 
equipment within the meaning of ‘restrictions for the protection of 
European communication networks’ (or entities fully or partially owned 
or controlled by a high-risk supplier) cannot submit guarantees.107 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 3 and achieve at least TRL6 by 
the end of the project – see General Annex B. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced portfolio covering the different strategic sectors, 
grants will be awarded to applications not only in order of ranking but at 
least also to one proposal that is the highest ranked within (i) the 
aerospace sector, (ii) the pharma/drug development sector, and (iii) the 
telecommunication sector, provided that the applications attain all 
thresholds. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Beneficiaries must provide financial support to third parties. The support 
to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. FSTP grants 
may be provided to either a single SME or to a small team of legal 
entities. Where provided to a small team, the coordinator (lead 
applicant) must be an SME and other recipients of financial support 
must be either an SME, a research organisation, and/or public body 
secondary or higher education establishment.  
FSTP amounts: 
• The maximum amount to be granted per FSTP grant (whether 
provided to one legal entity or a team of legal entities) is EUR 
250,000 in stage 2 and EUR 2,000,000 in stage 3. 
• The amount of EUR 250,000 in stage 2 is justified as the 
challenge and corresponding tasks defined for this stage must be 
complex enough in order to take the best and most informed 
decision in the selection for the next stage based on a convincing 
technical prototype/proof of concept that reaches sufficient level 
of performance in terms of scale and maturity.  
• The amount of EUR 2,000,000 in stage 3 is justified by the 
ambition of reaching significant technology progress and 
innovation, defined in the expected outcome of the call, including 
the need for the selected projects to scale their solutions to the 
maturity expected.  
The maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 
2,250,000 
In accordance with Annex 5 of the grant agreement “SPECIFIC RULES 
FOR CARRYING OUT THE ACTION ( — ARTICLE 18) 
Implementation in case of restrictions due to strategic assets, interests, 
autonomy or security of the EU and its Member States ”, by default 
beneficiaries must ensure that, inter alia , no recipient of FSTP is (i) 
established in a country which is not an eligible country (as identified in 
the specific conditions for eligibility) or (ii) controlled by such countries 
or entities from such countries (directly or indirectly as per the specific 
conditions for eligibility). In line with the possibility for the granting 
authority to agree otherwise, as concerns control of SMEs or private 
research organisations that participate as recipients of FSTP, 
beneficiaries must only ensure that such entities are not directly 
majority-owned (i.e., more than 50% of the capital) by entities 
established in non-eligible countries.  
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Significant technology progress and innovation through challenge-driven approach in the 
fields of aerospace, pharma/drug development or telecommunication networks. 
• Increased competitivity and visibility of the Generative AI community in Europe, in 
demonstrating their capability to achieve challenging tasks within the aerospace, 
pharma/drug development or telecommunication sectors. 
• Increased adoption of Generative AI in aerospace, pharma/drug development or 
telecommunication networks through tangible progress and achievement demonstrated 
via the challenge-driven process.   
Scope: Generative AI (GenAI) promises to transform most industry sectors. This challenge -
driven initiative aims to boost both Europe’s developer community and the adoption of 
powerful trustworthy generative AI solutions in the strategic sectors of aerospace, 
pharma/drugs and telecommunication networks, key for their competitiveness. In 
pharmaceuticals, it can, for instance, accelerates drug design by rapidly creating target -
specific molecules, reducing development time from years to seconds, and potentially 
preventing prolonged health crises like COVID -19. In aerospace, generative AI can for 
instance optimize aircraft design, streamline manufacturing processes, predict maintenance 
needs through sensor data analysis, route optimisation, and enhance pilot training with 
diverse, realistic simulations. By embracing generative AI, telecom companies can position 
themselves at the forefront of a new era of intelligent and automated telecommunications. 
Specific use-cases include for instance network management, network optimization, network 
slicing, network healing, predictive maintenance, network mapping and optimization. 
Each proposal should focus exclusively on one of the three key sectors mentioned above: 
aerospace, pharma/drug development, or telecommunications and clearly specify which sector 
it addresses. Each proposal is expected to focus primarily on the definition, the organization 
of a multi-stage competition in the chosen sector, as well as the accompanying support to the 
companies/teams taking part in the challenges, and related activities to maximise the impact 
of the action. 
User industry companies from the strategic sector targeted by the proposal should be core 
partners in the consortium. They should demonstrate a genuine interest in the projects results 
and therefore support the challenge participants - in order to reach the most powerful and 
exploitable results benefitting their industry. The expected results are pre -competitive but the 
proposal must include a draft exploitation plan outlining commitments on future exploitation. 
The consortium is responsible for the various stages of the challenges and should provide the 
necessary support resources during each stage of the competition, including technical 
assistance and business support to develop an exploitation strategy, but most importantly, 
provide to the competing FSTP recipients the data necessary to fine -tune models and build 
powerful solutions meeting industry needs. 
Proposals should be driven by impactful use -cases where generative AI can make the 
difference: a number of industries from the targeted sector are expected to join forces to 
define challenging problems to solve with GenAI solutions, which then drive the rest of the 
project. Based on such challenges, the consortium organises a multi -staged competition with 
an increasing level of complexity. In the different stages (see below), third parties, either 
single SMEs or small team of organisations led by an SME, compete to address the challenges 
with GenAI solutions. 
For each proposal: 
• Stage 1 - Open call: The consortium launches an open call for proposals. A challenge, 
open to all, will allow to select for Stage 2 the 20 highest -ranked proposals, according to 
a pre-defined selection process and criteria. Each solution competing for the challenge 
can be submitted either by a single SME, developer of GenAI solutions, or a small team 
of organisations led by such SME 
• Stage 2 - Competition among Stage 1 winners:  The 20 teams or organisations selected 
from Stage 1 receive EUR 250 000 FSTP grant each in accordance with their 
successfully selected proposal (which addresses the tasks and challenges defined for this 
stage by the consortium). At the end of Stage 2, the 4 highest ranked solutions will be 
selected for the next stage according to a pre-defined selection process and criteria. 
• Stage 3 – Grand finale (Competition among Stage 2 winners):  The 4 teams or 
organisations selected from Stage 2 receive EUR 2,000,000 FSTP grants each in 
accordance with their successfully selected proposals to address the tasks and challenges 
for this stage. In conjunction, they will prepare for the grand finale that will identify the 
best performing solution at the end of Stage 3 according to the evaluation methodology 
defined by the consortium.  
The consortium should define measures to support the winners in maximizing the impact and 
uptake of their solutions. For instance, after the end of the FSTP grant, the best performing 
team could be offered the opportunity to conclude partnerships or contracts with the user 
industries leading the consortium. Measures to support the broad uptake of their solutions in 
the whole sector should also be considered. 
Such multi-staged scheme is expected to be implemented in parallel by the projects funded 
under this action, each addressing a different sector. 
Each proposal, involving several major industry players, should define a clear methodology to 
implement the various steps of the approach, define the specifications of the stages of the 
competitions, timelines, targets, KPIs, a solid evaluation methodology including evaluation 
criteria. The main information should be in the proposal, in addition to all mandatory 
requirements as concerns financial support to third parties. The beneficiaries will also be in 
charge of implementing the evaluation methodology, and providing the necessary 
infrastructure/technical support for the participants to the challenges. The consortium 
members are also responsible for ensuring high visibility of the competitions. 
The projects selected from this call, each addressing one of the three targeted sectors, are 
expected to collaborate among themselves, in order to make economies of scale in sharing 
best practices, defining processes for organising the challenges, ensuring efficient monitoring, 
organising dissemination and communication activities, etc. Such collaboration among the 
linked actions is expected to be formalised by a collaboration agreement, after the grant 
agreement signature. 
For each proposal, an amount of EUR 5,000,000 is foreseen to be distributed among the 
winners of Stage 1, in form of FSTP grants, in order to prepare for Stage 2. In addition, a 
budget of EUR 8,000,000 is foreseen to be distributed among the winners of Stage 2, in the 
form of FSTP grants, to prepare for Stage 3 of the challenge. 
The proposal is expected to make the case for such investment in defining the objectives with 
sufficient level of information. This amount will be distributed equally among the 4 winning 
teams of Stage 2, who are expected to develop further their solutions and compete for Stage 3. 
Visibility would be important; therefore dissemination and communication campaigns are 
key. The proposers are also encouraged to seek sponsorship, which would be key for the 
visibility and prestige of their challenge, and to attract the best developers from the eligible 
countries to compete, particularly SMEs, alone or within a team competing for the challenges. 
All proposals are expected to incorporate mechanisms for assessing and demonstrating 
progress, including qualitative and quantitative KPIs, benchmarking, and progress monitoring. 
When possible, proposals should build on and reuse public results from relevant previous 
funded actions. Communicable results should be shared with the European R&D community 
through the AI -on-demand platform, and if necessary, other relevant digital resource 
platforms to bolster the European AI, Data, and Robotics ecosystem by disseminating results 
and best practices. 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on AI, data and robotics 
(ADRA), and all proposals are expected to allocate tasks for cohesion activities with ADRA 
and the CSA HORIZON-CL4-2025-03-HUMAN-18: GenAI4EU central Hub. 
Proposals should also build on or seek collaboration with relevant projects 108 and develop 
synergies with other relevant International, European, national or regional initiatives. Projects 
selected in this topic will link to the resources offered by the AI Factories, including the Data 
Labs. The results may be validated in the Testing and Experiment Facilities and further 
deployed via the European Digital Innovation Hubs (EDIHs) and will contribute to the Apply 
AI strategy109. 
Robotics 
Proposals are invited against the following topic(s):