HORIZON-CL4-2027-04-HUMAN-07: Facilitate the engagement of European 
stakeholders in international digital standardisation (CSA) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 7.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 7.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP). The 
support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000. As 
the primary purpose of the action is to support European experts in the 
global ICT standardisation scene, a minimum of 75% of the total 
requested EU contribution should be allocated to FSTP selected through 
open calls. Beneficiaries will define the process for the selection of 
specialists through open calls. They will also define the process that will 
lead to a selection of a pool of evaluators that will evaluate the 
applications received in the open calls. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 177. 
 
Expected Outcome: Proposals are expected to contribute to the following outcomes: 
• Increasing the participation and influence of European experts in digital standardisation 
to promote EU values and strategic interests, contributing to strengthen EU 
competitiveness in the digital field. 
• Improvement of the skills of European experts, especially from SMEs, R&I institutions, 
Open-Source community, academia and societal stakeholders, to successfully contribute 
and lead in the development of digital standards. 
• Development and update of standardisation landscapes and gap analyses of key digital 
technologies as outlined in the Rolling Plan for ICT Standardisation. 
• Provision of foresight analyses regarding standardisation in new emerging technologies 
to identify short and medium -term digital standardisation needs to support EU policies 
and anticipate appropriate participation by EU stakeholders. 
• More awareness of the benefits and competitive advantages of standardisation, in 
particular for SMEs and researchers, and more visibility of the European digital 
standardisation ecosystem.  
Scope: Contribute to the implementation of the EU Standardisation Strategy and other policy 
initiatives such as Europe’s Digital Decade, Apply AI Strategy or the Competitiveness 
Compass, with an emphasis on supporting the EU’s leading position in global standards -
setting of key digital technologies. 
The goals are inter alia to 1) strengthen the EU competitiveness in the digital domain; 2) 
contribute to EU tech sovereignty and 3) promote EU values and interests internationally, by 
empowering and financially supporting the active participation of European stakeholders in 
the development of digital international standards. 
 
The objective is to reinforce the presence of experts from the EU and associated Horizon 
Europe countries in global digital standards setting, especially those coming from SMEs, R&I 
institutions, Open-Source community, academia and societal stakeholders. 
To achieve this objective, proposals under this topic should provide for: 
• Setting up of a management facility to support contributions and leadership (e.g. chairing 
of technical committees, convenor positions) of European specialists in activities in 
relation to global digital standardisation 
• When relevant, support financially the hosting of international standardisation meetings 
(e.g. 3GPP, ISO/IEC JTC1) and workshops in Europe to ease the participation of 
European experts 
• Landscape and gap analysis of standardisation activities in key digital priority areas, as 
outlined in the Annual Union Work Programme and the Rolling Plan for ICT 
standardisation, including identification of new emerging technology areas. 
• Promotion of the relevance and benefits of digital standardisation, especially for 
strengthening the competitiveness of EU industry, driving sustainability, achieving tech 
sovereignty, and promoting EU values. The proposal shall build synergies with other 
similar EU - and national -funded initiatives. It shall also include actions, including 
development of tools and materials, to promote education and skills on standardisation.  
Beneficiaries that intend to transfer ownership or grant an exclusive licence must formally 
notify the granting authority (i.e. DG -CNECT and HaDEA) before the intended transfer or 
licensing takes place and the granting authority may up to four years after the end of the 
action object to a transfer of ownership or the exclusive licensing of results. 
The proposal should take into account the previous activities carried out at least in terms of 
educational material and facilities for funding experts within the topics ICT -40-2017 
(implemented by the StandICT.eu project), ICT -45-2020 (implemented under 
StandICT.eu2023 project), HORIZON -CL4-2022-RESILIENCE-01-21 (implemented under 
StandICT.eu 2026) and HORIZON -CL4-2024-HUMAN-03-04 (implemented under 
StandICT.eu 2029). 
See website: http://www.standict.eu. 
