HORIZON-CL4-2026-02-MAT-PROD-21-two-stage: Development of safe and 
sustainable alternatives to substances of concern (IA)  
Call: INDUSTRY-two-stage 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
6.00 and 7.50 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
project appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 38.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Applicants submitting a proposal for a blind evaluation (see General 
Annex F) must not disclose their organisation names, acronyms, logos 
nor names of personnel in the proposal abstract and Part B of their 
first-stage application (see General Annex E). 
In order to include a business case and exploitation strategy, as 
outlined in the introduction to Destination 'Leadership in materials 
and production for Europe', the page limit in part B of the General 
Annexes is exceptionally extended by 3 pages (for second -stage 
proposals). 
Eligibility conditions The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or 
as an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the 
preparation and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 5 and achieve TRL 7 by the 
end of the project – see General Annex B.  
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The first-stage proposals of this topic will be evaluated blindly. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
• Make safer and more sustainable alternatives to substances of concern available to the 
industries offering products with targeted performances and supporting their 
competitiveness, 
• Speeding up the innovation cycle within a value chain important for European industry; 
• Enhancing competitiveness of the industries by reducing regulatory and operational 
costs, while making supply chains more secure; 
• Production processes, chemicals, materials and products that are inherently safer and 
more sustainable for a clean and autonomous economy; and 
• Demonstrating how the safe and sustainable by design (SSbD) chemicals and materials 
framework can guide innovation and encourage innovators to minimise the use of 
substances of concern, reducing negative impacts on human health, climate and 
ecosystems.   
Scope: The focus of this topic is on alternatives for the substitution of substances of concern 
(SoCs) as defined in the Ecodesign for Sustainable Product regulation 23. The design and 
development of these alternatives should lead to an innovation cycle covering their (re)design, 
development, production processes, and integration into products in manufacturing. 
The scope includes necessary developments of related processes and technologies to ensure 
alignment with and integration in industrial manufacturing facilitating uptake of the develop 
alternatives. If relevant, challenges for the adaption of existing production lines should be 
identified and solutions proposed. 
Proposals should develop new chemical substances, innovative advanced materials or 
technologies to replace existing SoCs in one of the following areas: energy, mobility, 
construction, electronics, technical textiles as well as medical devices. 
Proposals should demonstrate that the proposed alternative has a clear use case, market and 
potential to grow. The substitution barriers for the selected applications should be identified 
and effective mechanisms to maximise substitution within the targeted value chains proposed. 
Proposals should demonstrate that SSbD framework 24  will be applied throughout the 
innovation process, showing that safety and sustainability principles are actively integrated 
and influence decision -making in a transparent and traceable way, and ensure that the data 
generated within the proposal may be shared with the Common Data Platform for Chemicals. 
The new alternatives to be developed should meet the technical functions required in the 
specific applications while aligning their innovation process decision making with such 
framework. 
Proposals are encouraged to cooperate with relevant projects and should contribute to and 
cooperate with the EU Innovation and Substitution Hub(s). Proposals should allocate the 
necessary resources to the proposed activities. 
 
Proposals should include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined in the 
introduction to this Destination. 
Proposals could consider involving the European Commission's Joint Research Centre (JRC), 
whose contribution could add value to the operationalisation of the SSbD framework.