HORIZON-CL4-2027-SPACE-03-12: Digital solutions for autonomy for space 
transportation systems, design and simulation tools - Digital enablers and building 
blocks (Space Partnership) 
Call: SPACE 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
2.00 and 3.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 5.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
In order to achieve the expected outcomes, and safeguard the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, and security, it is important to 
avoid a situation of technological dependency on a non -EU source, in a 
global context that requires the EU to take action to build on its 
strengths, and to carefully assess and address any strategic weaknesses, 
vulnerabilities and high -risk dependencies which put at risk the 
attainment of its ambitions. For this reason, participation is limited to 
legal entities established in Member States, Iceland and Norway and the 
following additional associated countries : Canada, New -Zealand, 
United Kingdom and Switzerland. In addition, entities established in 
third countries which may become associated to Horizon Europe during 
2026 and 2027 may be eligible to participate in this topic if the third 
country is identified for this topic as an eligible country in the List of 
Participating Countries in Horizon Europe at the time of submission of 
the application 140 . In any case, the association agreement to the 
 
Programme must apply by the time of the signature of the grant 
agreement. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed in the paragraph 
above, in order to guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of 
the Union and its Member States, entities established in an eligible 
country listed above, but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a 
non-eligible country or by a non -eligible country entity, may not 
participate in the action unless it can be demonstrated, by means of 
guarantees positively assessed by their eligible country of 
establishment, that their participation to the action would not negatively 
impact the Union’s strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security. 
Entities assessed as high -risk suppliers of mobile network 
communication equipment within the meaning of ‘restrictions for the 
protection of European communication networks’ (or entities fully or 
partially owned or controlled by a high -risk supplier) cannot submit 
guarantees.141 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 7 -8 by the end of the project. 
The reference TRL definition is the ISO 16290:2013 applicable to the 
space sector.  
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Eligible proposals submitted under this topic and exceeding all the 
evaluation thresholds will be awarded a STEP Seal 142. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 143. 
 
Expected Outcome: The topic encompasses actions within the scope of the co -programmed 
European Partnership on Globally Competitive Space Systems (‘Space Partnership’) in the 
areas of satellite communication (SatCom), Earth Observation (EO) and New Commercial 
Space Transportation Solutions and is part of cohesive activities in the domain of digital 
developments under the grand heading of “digitalisation for commercial space solutions”. 
Under the area of Access to Space  related to New Space Transportation Solutions, this topic 
focusses on the maturation of disruptive/game changing digital technologies 144 required to 
strengthen competitiveness in this domain. 
Project results are expected to contribute to one or several of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Improved space transportation systems and launcher sustainability, reduced costs and 
operational constraints as well as enhanced system monitoring and autonomy; 
• Innovative technologies for New Space Transportation Solutions, including addressing 
software and digital tools.   
This will contribute to developing, deploying global space -based services applications and 
data and contribute to fostering the EU's space sector competitiveness and sustainability, as 
stated in the expected impact of this destination. 
Scope: To tackle the above -mentioned expected outcomes, R&I is expected to address the 
maturation of disruptive/game changing digital technologies required to strengthen 
competitiveness in this domain and sustainability by assessing the impact of these 
technologies (e.g. by allowing the monitoring of sustainable solutions). More specifically, 
R&I in one or more of the following areas are expected to be addressed:  
• Autonomy, data fusion, navigation, mission planning, and more specifically advanced 
algorithms for process automation and autonomous flight termination systems;  
• Eco-design guidelines for end -to-end aspects and software design tools, and more 
specifically digital models of the launch system through the use of Model -Based System 
Engineering, and modelling/simulation of space activity impact on atmosphere;  
• Landing solutions for reusability, specifically navigation data fusion for autonomous 
landing.  
 
Proposals are expected to promote cooperation between different actors (industry, SMEs, 
research institutions and academia) and consider opportunities to quickly turn technological 
innovation into commercial use in space. 
It is expected that projects make use of existing EU technologies and/or building blocks, 
including at component level, contributing to EU non -dependence and strengthening 
competitiveness, and this should be clearly presented in the proposal. Furthermore, proposed 
activities should be complementary to H2020 and Horizon Europe funded projects, national 
activities and activities funded by the European Space Agency (ESA). 
This topic contributes to the implementation of the co -programmed European Partnership on 
‘Globally Competitive Space Systems’ (GCSS).  
In this topic, the integration of the gender dimension (sex and gender analysis) in research and 
innovation content should be addressed only if relevant in relation to the objectives of the 
research effort.