HORIZON-CL4-2026-SPACE-03-32: Preparing demonstration missions for Earth 
Observation and Satellite telecommunication for Space solutions (Space Partnership) 
Call: SPACE 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
5.00 and 10.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 26.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
In order to achieve the expected outcomes, and safeguard the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security, participation is limited 
to legal entities established in Member States, Norway and Iceland. 
Proposals including entities established in countries outside the scope 
specified in the call/topic/action will be ineligible. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed in the paragraph 
above, in order to guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of 
the Union and its Member States, entities established in an eligible 
country listed above, but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a 
non-eligible country or by a non -eligible country entity, may not 
participate in the action unless it can be demonstrated, by means of 
guarantees positively assessed by their eligible country of 
establishment, that their participation to the action would not negatively 
impact the Union’s strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security. 
Entities assessed as high -risk suppliers of mobile network 
communication equipment within the meaning of ‘restrictions for the 
protection of European communication networks’ (or entities fully or 
partially owned or controlled by a high -risk supplier) cannot submit 
guarantees.154 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 7 -8 by the end of the project. 
The reference TRL definition is the ISO 16290:2013 applicable to the 
space sector.  
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Eligible proposals submitted under this topic and exceeding all the 
evaluation thresholds will be awarded a STEP Seal 155. 
To ensure a balanced portfolio covering all the development areas 
described in the scope section, grants will be awarded to applications 
not only in order of ranking but at least also to one proposal that is the 
highest ranked within each development area, provided that the 
applications attain all thresholds 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
 
Agreements Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 156. 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: The topic encompasses actions within the scope of the co -programmed 
European Partnership on Globally Competitive Space Systems (‘Space Partnership’) in the 
areas of satellite communication (SatCom), Earth Observation (EO) and New Commercial 
Space Transportation Solutions and is part of cohesive activities in the domain of digital 
developments under the grand heading of “digitalisation for commercial space solutions”. 
Digitalisation is a major enabler for enhancing the value of an End -to-End EO and SatCom 
system. Under the area of Using Space on Earth  related to SatCom and EO, below this topic 
focusses on the Mid to High TRL level developments of key technologies 157 required to 
strengthen competitiveness in these domains, contributing to the preparation of EO and 
SatCom demonstration missions. 
Projects are expected to contribute to one or several of the following outcomes: 
• Favouring a competitive and sustainable European Space Sector; 
• Enable the European Space Industry to maintain a significant share of the global 
connectivity market; 
• Advanced Earth observation and SatCom payloads, technologies and processing means 
(on ground and in space); 
• Advanced EO and SatCom fostering AI across space system; 
• Enhanced security of SatCom and EO services, supporting advanced technologies for 
both ground and space commercial applications; 
• End-to-end demonstrator for collaborative Earth Observation and Satellite 
telecommunication for Space solutions.   
 
This will contribute to developing, deploying global, more flexible and reactive space -based 
services applications, to contribute to fostering the EU's space sector competitiveness, as 
stated in the expected impact of this destination. 
Scope: The areas of R&I, which needs to be addressed to tackle the above -mentioned 
expected outcomes are: 
• R&I on End-to-End SatCom Mission capabilities, secure SatCom services and satellites 
as network nodes in a distributed system, radio -frequency payloads, flexible and 
modular testbed for complex satcom system architectures to assess performances, 
testbed for processing RF signal directly onboard the spacecraft, compatibility of the 
different elements and operations concepts; 
• R&I on LEO or VLEO earth observation equipment, subsystems, applications and 
services enabling real time reaction (e.g. use cases requiring low latency), on on -board 
processing to optimize EO missions’ performance or timeliness, EO ground segment 
interfaces and data flow standardisation and adoption, smart multi -source EO 
intelligence information fusion also on ground; 
• R&I on synergetic technologies, building blocks and processes with applicability across 
both EO and SatCom next generation operation systems such as operational optimisation 
for increasing lifetime, design optimisation for increasing efficiency and advanced 
techniques for large system of systems or multi -mission operation optimisation, as well 
as tip & cue demonstration combining RF and EO using inter -satellite links (including 
optical).  
Developments should aim at EO and Telecom technologies on -ground in relevant 
environment and in orbit software demonstration when flight is feasible and adding value 
focusing on software and digital tools (e.g. algorithms, functions). 
Proposals may contribute to one or more of the above R&I areas, however the main area 
addressed should be clearly and unambiguously identified in the proposal text. 
Proposals are expected to promote cooperation between different actors (industry, SMEs, 
research institutions and infrastructures and academia) and consider opportunities to quickly 
turn technological innovation into commercial use in space via e.g., on -ground relevant 
environment or in orbit demonstration. 
It is expected that projects make use of existing EU technologies and/or building blocks, 
including at component level, contributing to EU non -dependence and strengthen 
competitiveness, and this should be clearly presented in the proposal. Furthermore, proposed 
activities should be complementary to H2020 and Horizon Europe funded projects, national 
activities and activities funded by the European Space Agency (ESA). 
This topic contributes to the implementation of the European Partnership on ‘Globally 
Competitive Space Systems’ (GCSS). 
In this topic, the integration of the gender dimension (sex and gender analysis) in research and 
innovation content should be addressed only if relevant in relation to the objectives of the 
research effort.