HORIZON-CL4-2027-SPACE-03-21: ISOS4I Pilot Mission Integrated Ground Test and 
consolidation of space-compatible USI solutions 
Call: SPACE 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
0.80 and 1.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 0.98 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The page limit of the application is 45 pages. 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: beneficiaries must 
include the beneficiaries of the ISOS Pilot Mission Coordination & 
Support Action, awarded under Other actions not subject to calls for 
proposals, from the Horizon Europe Cluster 4 Work Programme 2025, 
as commanded by the nature and objectives of the topic.  
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
In order to achieve the expected outcomes, and safeguard the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security, participation is limited 
to legal entities established in Member States, Norway and Iceland. 
Proposals including entities established in countries outside the scope 
specified in the call/topic/action will be ineligible. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed in the paragraph 
above, in order to guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of 
the Union and its Member States, entities established in an eligible 
country listed above, but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a 
non-eligible country or by a non -eligible country entity, may not 
participate in the action unless it can be demonstrated, by means of 
guarantees positively assessed by their eligible country of 
establishment, that their participation to the action would not negatively 
impact the Union’s strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security. 
Entities assessed as high -risk suppliers of mobile network 
communication equipment within the meaning of ‘restrictions for the 
protection of European communication networks’ (or entities fully or 
partially owned or controlled by a high -risk supplier) cannot submit 
guarantees.145 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -7 by the end of the project – 
see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL. [delete second 
sentence only if really necessary] 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The evaluation committee will be composed partially by representatives 
of EU institutions. 
 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 146. 
Security Sensitive 
Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: The strategic objective of this topic is to develop capabilities to ‘Act in 
Space’ through demonstrating in space a pilot mission by 2030 related to ISOS. The 
envisaged ISOS pilot mission shall provide the necessary seed components for a future 
service infrastructure, available to the European in-space ecosystem (including the EU assets), 
driving the generation of a new in -space economy, providing enhanced in -orbit technology 
demonstration and maximising EU technology non-dependence. 
This pilot mission will largely contribute to ensure EU’s freedom of action in space, increase 
the resilience and protection of EU assets in space and foster the development of the new in -
space economy. A pioneering and a novel mission concept, which is unique compared to 
other initiatives among all space -faring nations is envisaged. The mission will build on 
previous R&I with an operational mission concept, focusing on application and service 
demonstration, with a concrete view to commercial and governmental usage. The detailed 
mission concept has been derived in close coordination with EU Member States and EEA 
countries through a dedicated Pilot Mission Advisory Group (PMAG). 
This topic addresses the validation of the developed ISOS4I mission components in an 
integrated ground test. The setup will integrate all mission components in a suitable test 
environment, including necessary simulation and control of the engineering/qualification 
models. Furthermore, the topic will address the qualification and verification of the Universal 
Service Interface (USI) solution(s) identified through the consolidation work done in the 
CSA147. Moreover, the activity shall support public outreach activities for the ISOS4I pilot  
mission. 
 
Project results are expected to contribute to the following outcomes, in close and continuous 
coordination with the European Commission services and the EU Member States through the 
ISOS Expert Group148: 
• An in -space economy, building on innovative technologies and concepts for a 
sustainable infrastructure and value -adding services in space, e.g. plug -and-play 
spacecraft functionality introducing recycling/re -use of spacecraft 
modules/functionalities, and satellite upgrades and payload exchange for mission 
adaptivity; 
• ISOS4I pilot mission preparation up to detailed mission and system detail design, and 
ground demonstrator, as well as promotion of the mission to the wider public. 
• Consolidated and space-verified USI solution(s) for European space actors  
This topic will contribute to, in the medium to long term, developing, deploying global space -
based services and contribute to fostering the European space sector competitiveness, as 
stated in the expected impact of this destination. 
Scope: To tackle the above expected outcomes, the following R&I actions should be 
addressed in the shortest possible timeframe taking into account the provided technical 
annex149: 
• Supporting the ISOS Pilot mission detailed mission and system design, demonstrating in 
an integrated ground test (TRL6) the interoperability of the developed mission 
components ground prototypes (i.e., Servicing, HOST, Logistic and satAPPs) with all 
applicable servicing interfaces and the baseline demonstration scenarios as defined in the 
technical annex; 
• Final maturation, verification and qualification (TRL7) of the consolidated USI 
solution(s) recommended by the ISOS Pilot Mission Coordination and Support Action, 
considering opportunities for IOD/V; 
• Development of a ISOS4I promotion video and VR experience for dissemination 
purposes, showcasing the pilot mission concept with its baseline demonstration scenario 
and the evolution towards an in-space service infrastructure leading to manifold business 
opportunities as part of a wider in-space economy.  
Proposals are expected to promote cooperation between different actors (industry, SMEs and 
research institutions) and consider opportunities to quickly turn technological innovation into 
commercial use. 
Proposals should clearly describe how previous and/or ongoing R&I of the mission 
components and any required additional technologies for the proposed ground test will be 
integrated and involve entities part of the key technology and service provider group, as 
 
necessary. Moreover, proposals should clearly identify the test facility/ies to be used for the 
ground demonstrator. Finally, proposals should build on the outcome of the CSA activities on 
(1) “Proposal for an as much as possible integrated ground demonstrator bringing together the 
different mission components at the end of their detailed design phase” and (2) “Proposal for 
USIs consolidation, i.e., selection of a single USI European solution or approach allowing 
compatibility with multiple solutions (required for the HC)”. 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -7 by the end of the project. The reference TRL 
definition is the ISO 16290:2013 applicable to the space sector. 
Proposals are expected to consider and contribute to a balanced provision of Member States’ 
and eligible Associated Countries’ expertise and capabilities to the overall ISOS pilot mission, 
to support a successful introduction of the strategic capacity ‘Act in Space’. 
The project selected from this topic will be a Linked Action and is expected to closely 
collaborate with those selected under topics HORIZON -CL4-2025-02-SPACE-21, 22, 23, 24 
and ISOS Pilot Mission Coordination and Support Action, in order to ensure interoperability 
and the necessary and sufficient documentation and information sharing for the 
implementation of the Pilot Mission, to make economies of scale in sharing best practices, 
defining common processes for addressing the different challenges, ensuring efficient 
monitoring and review, organising dissemination and communication activities, etc. 
In this topic, the integration of the gender dimension (sex and gender analysis) in research and 
innovation content should be addressed only if relevant in relation to the objectives of the 
research effort.