HORIZON-CL4-2026-01-MAT-PROD-11: Innovative technologies and tools for 
exploration and data modelling of raw materials (RIA) 
Call: INDUSTRY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
5.00 and 7.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 18.50 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined 
in the introduction to this Destination, the page limit in part B of the 
General Annexes is exceptionally extended by 3 pages. 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To increase EU resilience in raw materials supply chains and thus 
reduce the serious risk to the Union's strategic assets, economic and 
societal interests, autonomy and security associated with the current EU 
reliance on a few third countries for critical raw materials, by increasing 
sustainable and responsible sourcing of primary and secondary raw 
materials necessary to enable the green and digital transition and in 
alignment with the objectives of the Critical Raw Materials Act 59 , 
participation in this topic is limited to legal entities established in 
Member States, associated countries, OECD countries, African Union 
Member States, MERCOSUR, CARIFORUM, Andean Community and 
countries with which the EU has concluded strategic partnerships on 
raw materials 60 as well as trade agreements (or association/economic 
partnership or equivalent agreements, including the new Clean Trade 
and Investment Partnerships) containing raw materials cooperation 
provisions (i.e. Energy and Raw materials chapters) 61. The choice of 
these countries was made taking into consideration the development of 
strategic international partnerships on raw materials and avoidance of 
reinforcing existing over -dependencies, as well as the importance of 
involving partners committed to pursuing open trade in such materials. 
Proposals including legal entities which are not established in the 
countries that fall under the criteria above will be ineligible. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed above, in order to 
guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of the Union and its 
Member States, entities established in an eligible country listed above, 
but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a non -eligible country 
or a non-eligible country entity, shall not participate in the action. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 3 -4 and achieve TRL 5 by the 
end of the project – see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 62. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
• Increase information on the European Union raw materials, particularly critical raw 
materials occurrences and deposits, while contributing to the implementation of the 
National exploration programme,(article 19 of the Critical Raw Materials 
Regulation(CRMA)63. 
• Improve knowledge base of EU raw materials to identify new areas for exploration and 
resource estimation; 
• Accelerate development of EU domestic raw materials exploration projects integrating 
innovative technologies that can form the basis for new EU SMEs; 
• Develop innovative exploration data acquisition, processing and modelling and mineral 
system analysis for identification of critical raw materials deposits in the EU; 
• Projects will provide technologies and data which will strengthen EU Geological 
Surveys capacities and skills to implement the National Exploration programmes as 
defined in the CRMA. 
• Accelerate development of EU domestic raw materials exploration projects by junior 
mining / exploration companies.   
Scope: Actions should develop and validate advanced geological modelling and mineral 
system analysis using multi -source data (geological, geophysical, and geochemical) from 
ground-based and remote -sensing techniques to develop high -resolution 3D models of 
mineral deposits. The integration of new (AI and machine learning) and conventional methods 
will be necessary to predict with the greatest accuracy the location of mineral deposits of 
critical raw materials and their carrier minerals. Actions contributing to the National 
exploration programmes under the article 19 of CRMA is encouraged. 
Actions should develop new knowledge and conceptual models, supported by innovative 
technologies to strengthen and secure the EU’s supply of primary raw materials by: 
• Generating better geological understanding (i.e. characterization, modelling, mapping) of 
known mineral deposits to facilitate discovery of new resources, including mineral 
systems carrying critical raw materials; 
 
• Collecting new geological, geophysical, and geochemical data and developing ore 
genetic models and mineral system analysis to build a broad understanding of EU’s 
deposit type, including critical raw materials in order to identify areas for exploration, 
especially in previously underexplored regions; 
• Advancing mineral prospectivity modelling processes; 
• Facilitate the integration of existing multi-datasets with newly acquired data.  
Proposals should include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined in the 
introduction to this Destination.