HORIZON-CL4-2026-04-DATA-06: Efficient and compliant access to and use of data 
(IA) (AI, Data and Robotics partnership) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 11.50 
and 23.50 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative 
budget 
The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 46.50 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: In order to achieve the expected outcomes, and 
safeguard the Union’s strategic assets, interests, autonomy, and security, it 
is important to avoid a situation of technological dependency on a non -EU 
source, in a global context that requires the EU to take action to build on 
its strengths, and to carefully assess and address any strategic weaknesses, 
vulnerabilities and high-risk dependencies which put at risk the attainment 
of its ambitions. For this reason, participation is limited to legal entities 
established in Member States, Iceland and Norway, associated countries 
and OECD countries. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed in the paragraph 
above, in order to guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of the 
Union and its Member States, entities established in an eligible country 
listed above, but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a non -
eligible country or a non-eligible country entity, shall not participate in the 
action. 
Technology Activities are expected to start at TRL 6 -7 and achieve TRL 8 by the end 
Readiness Level of the project – see General Annex B. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to the following outcomes: 
• Lead to the development of secure, compliant and adaptive systems that improve the 
availability, accuracy, privacy and interoperability of data across the Union. 
• Deliver advanced, AI -driven compliance technologies and regulatory tools that reduce 
administrative burdens, promote regulatory efficiency, and facilitate the implementation 
of the Data Union Strategy, a Single Market for data, Common European Data Spaces, 
the European Business Wallet, and the Digital Justice Strategy for 2025-2030. 
• Enable more agile regulatory processes, foster mutual recognition of compliance efforts 
across borders and cross -border cooperation, support interoperability between Member 
States, and enhance transparency and trust. They will position the Union at the forefront 
of regulatory innovation, while strengthening the functioning, resilience, 
competitiveness, and digital leadership of the Single Market. 
• Enhance the excellence and competitiveness of companies, professionals, and public 
administrations by providing innovative, automated solutions to navigate and comply 
with Union rules seamlessly across borders. 
• Enhance public services and strengthen the competitiveness and digital sovereignty of 
the EU by improved availability and use of high -quality real and synthetic data to train 
AI systems more effectively.  
Scope: The scope of this topic is to support the deployment of secure, interoperable, and 
scalable data management systems, ensuring seamless cross -sector data integration, 
automation of key processes, and compliance with EU frameworks. 
The actions should deliver high-quality, well-structured, secure and compliant data, tailored to 
evolving societal, industrial, research and public sector needs, underpinning key EU 
strategies, including the Data Union Strategy, the Apply AI Strategy, the Digital Justice 
Strategy, and the development of Common European Data Spaces, Data Labs and EuroHPC 
systems (including the AI Factories). The developed methods, technologies and tools should 
ensure that data is effectively shared between sectors, disciplines, and participating countries, 
and that the data is reliable, traceable, and fit for purpose. 
The proposal should clearly state (in the abstract and in the introduction) which of the 
following two areas it addresses. A proposal can address both areas, but it should indicate one 
of them as the main focus of the proposal, as it will be evaluated accordingly under that area: 
• Area 1: The actions under this area should support the development and deployment of 
advanced, AI -driven compliance technologies and solutions that automate data 
transactions and key regulatory processes, reduce administrative burdens, and 
facilitate seamless adherence to EU rules . This includes RegTech/GovTech//LegalTech 
applications such as digital tools offering real -time compliance guidance, automated 
rule-drafting assistants for policymakers, and multilingual chatbots providing regulatory 
support to businesses and professionals. Predictive analytics and risk -based approaches 
should allow tailored compliance pathways, while integration with national systems and 
the Single Digital Gateway should promote cross -border mutual recognition and 
application of the Once -Only Principle. Public administrations should be equipped with 
automated compliance assessment tools, real -time analytics dashboards, and 
interoperability frameworks to enhance and streamline regulatory oversight and 
cooperation. The technologies and solutions should contribute to the principles of 
fairness, accountability and transparency in AI -driven compliance solutions, including 
traceability and explainability of automated actions. 
• The solutions under Area 1 should adhere to open technical standards, ensuring 
scalability, inclusiveness, and co -development with private and public stakeholders. 
Robust cybersecurity, trustworthy AI, trust safeguards, security and privacy 
cryptographic protection, including via post -quantum cryptography, should be 
embedded, aligning with EU data protection and digital identity frameworks. Artificial 
intelligence and machine learning models should be harnessed, to the extent 
possible/reasonable, to enable data-driven feedback loops that support continuous policy 
learning, allowing regulators to monitor rule implementation, identify unnecessary 
burdens, and simplify legislation based on real -time evidence. Where appropriate, the 
actions under this Area should build on and integrate the privacy -enhancing (including 
anonymization) technologies developed under earlier topics in the Horizon Europe 
programme. 
• Area 2: The actions under this area should focus on the design and deployment of 
secure, scalable, and adaptive data management systems that automate key data 
processes, such as data curation, metadata tagging, ontology management and discovery, 
labelling, annotation, and quality control,  developing and adapting appropriate AI 
methods and tools for these specific tasks. These systems should facilitate seamless 
integration and sharing of data across sectors and disciplines, ensuring interoperability, 
data provenance, data privacy and handling secured against emerging quantum threats 
via post-quantum cryptography, and compliance with applicable EU legal frameworks. 
Special emphasis is on enhancing data accuracy, representativeness, and relevance, 
particularly for use cases in industry, public services, citizen engagement, and the 
development of trustworthy AI applications, as well as the Common European Data 
Spaces. The development of such high -quality, semantically rich datasets will be 
essential to unlock the full potential of AI across domains. 
• Furthermore, the actions under Area 2 may also support the generation and use of high -
quality synthetic data, including spatial synthetic data, to complement real -world 
datasets while preserving data privacy via advanced, state -of-the-art cryptographic 
protection. This may include, among others, the use of AI -enabled generative graphics 
pipelines to automate the creation of large -scale simulated environments and the 
application of parallelised and/or neuromorphic computing techniques  to train AI 
models and artificial agents efficiently.  
The actions under both areas should take into account the work of the Data Spaces Support 
Centre, particularly the blueprint for common European data spaces, and build synergies with 
related Union initiatives such as AI Factories, European Blockchain Services infrastructure, 
and the European Business Wallet, as well as with sector -specific Common European Data 
Spaces, and EU Digital Identity Wallet large scale pilots. Close collaboration with relevant 
European Partnerships, stakeholders, including industry, public administrations, and research 
organisations, will ensure that the systems meet the practical needs of data users while 
fostering innovation, competitiveness, and digital sovereignty within the Single Market. 
