HORIZON-CL4-2026-01-MAT-PROD-44: Attracting management talent for capacity 
building for Technology Infrastructures staff members (CSA) 
Call: INDUSTRY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 3.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 2.50 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 53. 
 
 
Expected Outcome: Proposals should demonstrate the following expected outcomes: 
• Sound understanding of the competences and skills needs of Technology Infrastructures 
related to effective management and providing services to industry in all member states; 
• Improved and structure the training of Technology Infrastructures staff members with 
improved sector-agnostic competencies; 
• Increased and improved collaboration between Research and Technology Infrastructures, 
leading to exchange of best practices in management and capacity building in 
Technology Infrastructures, and peer learning; 
• Better uptake of technology infrastructure services by industry, including startups and 
scaleups, innovators and researchers; 
• Improved coherence, visibility and accessibility of technology infrastructures facilities 
and services; 
• Improved business and governance models of Technology Infrastructures.  
Scope: A combination of factors including rapid technological advancements, inefficient 
strategic planning, skills gaps, and budget limitations can create sub -optimal technology 
infrastructure management. Proposals are expected to develop and provide schemes to attract 
management talent (including but not limited to organisational sciences) to technology 
infrastructures in EU member states. These management talent schemes should be aimed at 
attracting talents that will study the technology infrastructures needs, in terms of 
competencies, skills, organizations, and business models, to deliver more efficiently their 
services to industry, especially to SMEs, startups and scaleups. Based on this sound 
understanding of Technology Infrastructures needs, the attracted management talents are 
expected to both develop and provide advice to Technology Infrastructures senior 
management and trainings to their staff members aimed at increasing their capacity to develop 
and provide services to industry. The developed trainings should be sector -agnostic, open -
source, accessible remotely, easy to update, and take stock of other existing similar initiatives 
and experiences in Research and Technology Infrastructures. 
Proposals should propose ways to enhance skills and career profiles of technical staff working 
in technology infrastructures to address evolving needs such as research security, data 
management, quality assurance, etc., as well as further professionalising the training of 
managerial and leadership staff in technology infrastructures. They should help also to 
promote entrepreneurial skills for technology infrastructures staff in training curricula to fully 
capture the potential of technology infrastructures as centres of deep -tech innovation 
ecosystem. 

Furthermore, proposals should aim to enhance transnational and multisite collaboration 
among Technology Infrastructures fostering the building of technology infrastructures 
ecosystems, the sharing of experience, resources, and best practices in management and 
capacity building, staff exchange and networking. These collaborations could lay the 
foundations of a future framework to facilitate coordination of technology infrastructures 
policy and priority setting at EU level as well as exchange of experience and good practices. 
Proposals may also benefit, especially for communication and dissemination activities, from 
sharing best practices and taking stock of what other relevant projects are developing in the 
field of Technology Infrastructures. Existing specific best management practices and 
European frameworks in the technology fields considered by the proposals have to be taken 
into account.