HORIZON-CL4-2027-01-MAT-PROD-16: Technologies for innovative processing of 
raw materials (IA) 
Call: INDUSTRY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
10.00 and 12.50 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 49.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined 
in the introduction to this Destination, the page limit in part B of the 
General Annexes is exceptionally extended by 3 pages. 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To increase EU resilience in raw materials supply chains and thus 
 
reduce the serious risk to the Union's strategic assets, economic and 
societal interests, autonomy and security associated with the current EU 
reliance on a few third countries for critical raw materials, by increasing 
sustainable and responsible sourcing of primary and secondary raw 
materials necessary to enable the green and digital transition and in 
alignment with the objectives of the Critical Raw Materials Act 81 , 
participation in this topic is limited to legal entities established in 
Member States, associated countries, OECD countries, African Union 
Member States, MERCOSUR, CARIFORUM, Andean Community and 
countries with which the EU has concluded strategic partnerships on 
raw materials 82 as well as trade agreements (or association/economic 
partnership or equivalent agreements, including the new Clean Trade 
and Investment Partnerships) containing raw materials cooperation 
provisions (i.e. Energy and Raw materials chapters) 83. The choice of 
these countries was made taking into consideration the development of 
strategic international partnerships on raw materials and avoidance of 
reinforcing existing over -dependencies, as well as the importance of 
involving partners committed to pursuing open trade in such materials. 
Proposals including legal entities which are not established in the 
countries that fall under the criteria above will be ineligible. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed above, in order to 
guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of the Union and its 
Member States, entities established in an eligible country listed above, 
but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a non -eligible country 
or a non-eligible country entity, shall not participate in the action. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 5 and achieve TRL 7 by the end 
of the project – see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
 
• Increased recovery rates of valuable raw materials, particularly critical raw materials 
from low grade or complex ores and/or from mining waste; 
• Increased economic performance in terms of higher material -, water-, energy- and cost-
efficiency and flexibility in minerals processing and metallurgical processes; and 
• Improved health, safety and environmental performance of the operations throughout the 
whole life cycle that is considered, including a reduction in waste, wastewater and 
generation of emissions of air pollutants and a better recovery of resources from 
generated waste, reducing the environmental footprint and contributing to biodiversity 
and ecosystems preservation.   
Scope: Actions should develop and validate / demonstrate pilot scale facility located in the 
EU integrating relevant processing and refining technologies for improved recovery of raw 
materials from low grade and/or complex ores from extractive wastes, reduction of waste and 
water and air pollution, higher energy efficiency and reduction of land and sea -use change, 
habitat loss, degradation and fragmentation. The action can also focus on reducing the content 
of toxic elements or compounds in the resulting material products. The actions should target 
minerals and metals, particularly critical raw materials. 
The solution proposed should be flexible enough to adapt to different or variable ore grades 
and extractive waste streams and should be supported by efficient and robust process control. 
Where relevant, any solution proposed for the reduction of the content of toxic elements or 
compounds in the resulting materials should also include the appropriate management of the 
hazardous substances removed. 
Actions should develop intelligent and innovative production systems which better utilise 
natural resources by minimising losses during waste -rock separation in an optimised and 
energy-efficient process and by minimising use of water. 
Recycling of end-of-life products is excluded from this topic. 
Actions should envisage clustering activities with other relevant selected projects for cross -
projects co -operation, consultations and joint activities on cross -cutting issues and share of 
results as well as participating in joint meetings and communication events. To this end 
proposals should foresee a dedicated work package and/or task, and earmark the appropriate 
resources accordingly. 
Actions should facilitate the market uptake of solutions developed through industrially - and 
user-driven multidisciplinary consortia covering the relevant value chain and should consider 
standardisation aspects when relevant. The action should also include the analysis of financial 
opportunities ensuring the market exploitation and replication of the circular business model 
behind the developed solutions as new processes, products and/or services. The industry 
based in the EU, and users of recovered secondary raw materials should assume prominent 
role in the proposed actions, supported by adequate allocation of resources. 
Proposals submitted under this topic should include a business case and exploitation strategy, 
as outlined in the introduction to this Destination. For TRLs 6-7, a credible strategy to achieve 
full-scale deployment in the EU is expected, indicating the commitments of the leading 
partners after the end of the project. 
International cooperation is encouraged with countries with which the EU has signed 
Strategic Partnerships on raw materials, especially with Ukraine.84