HORIZON-CL4-2027-01-MAT-PROD-08: Textile circularity through advanced 
processing and manufacturing technologies and system approaches (IA) (Textiles for the 
Future partnership) 
Call: INDUSTRY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
4.00 and 6.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 16.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined 
in the introduction to this Destination, the page limit in part B of the 
General Annexes is exceptionally extended by 3 pages. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
 Activities are expected to start at TRL 5 and achieve TRL 6 -7 by the 
end of the project – see General Annex B.  
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties. The 
support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 150 000. 
This derogation is justified by the fact that the actions to be carried out 
by third parties (SMEs) towards the expected outcome of the uptake of 
business models and system approaches, will be incorporating cost -
intensive technologies to process textile-to-textile recycled materials. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 45. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
• Increased economically viable and functionally equivalent renewable material and 
sustainable chemical solutions used in large scale textile applications, including apparel, 
home and technical textiles; 
• A realistic pathway for an absolute reduction of the use of virgin fossil -based materials 
and chemicals used to produce textile products for the EU market by 2035, contributing 
to enhance the preservation of human health, biodiversity and ecosystems, whether 
aquatic or terrestrial ecosystem preservation and emission reduction; 
• Uptake of business models and system approaches that allow for the scale up of 
sustainable textile material and chemical alternatives as competitive alternatives to 
conventional approaches.   
Scope: Innovative renewable textile fibres and sustainable chemical solutions today face 
almost insurmountable cost disadvantages compared to extremely cost -competitive and 
industrially entrenched fibres and chemicals based on virgin fossil resources. To allow for the 
scale up of the use of innovative renewable materials and sustainable chemicals by the textile 
industry, improved processability of materials, suitable processing technology, deeper 
technical knowledge and smart phase -in approaches such as material blending or drop -in 
solutions are required. Specific emphasis must be placed on resulting final product quality, 
their durability and functionality to avoid negative user/consumer perception of products 
made with renewable materials and sustainable chemicals. As not all cost and quality 
challenges may be immediately overcome by technological innovation, accompanying 
business models and systems approaches are needed to enable equitable cost and risk sharing 
among all involved stakeholders in the textile value chain. 
 
Attributes such as recyclability, recycled material content, and resource efficiency as well as 
reduced carbon and environmental footprint are expected to be part of the textile -specific 
requirements under the Ecodesign for Sustainable Products Regulation. 
Proposals should specifically address: 
• Innovative processing technologies to facilitate the efficient use of recycled, regenerated 
and bio -based fibres as well as sustainable processing and functionalising chemicals 
across all major stages of the textile manufacturing value chain, such as spinning, 
weaving, knitting, dyeing or finishing; 
• Quantification of biodiversity outcomes associated to new processes by using existing 
Monitoring, Reporting and Validation (MRV) methodologies, adapting and testing them 
if needed; 
• Characterisation, quality assurance and mitigation strategies for the most common 
processing and functionality challenges and limitations of the sustainable materials and 
chemicals targeted; 
• Development of best practices and training materials targeted at designers, 
manufacturers, brands, end of life managers and end users, working with the targeted 
materials and chemicals; 
• Strategies and tools to practically implement collective risk sharing and smart scaling 
approaches.  
Proposals should actively involve suppliers of renewable materials and sustainable chemicals, 
brands, commercial end users and developers/manufacturers of relevant processing 
technology and industrial partners with the capacity to commercially scale up production with 
the targeted materials and chemicals. The involvement of partners beyond the manufacturing 
supply chain, such as product designers, brands, commercial end users and end of life 
managers including collectors, sorters, recyclers and remanufacturers is particularly 
encouraged. Proposals should carry out research and innovation to develop missing elements 
and achieve the necessary integration, including economic viability. Hence, synergies with, or 
using results from, other projects may be appropriate. The mere integration of existing 
technologies or processes is outside the scope of this topic. 
Proposals should provide between 10% and 25% of the EU contribution through financial 
support to third parties (FSTP), in order to maximise the number of SMEs involved in small -
scale innovation projects. FSTP funding can be provided only to SME participants, while the 
active participation of larger companies in such innovation projects in encouraged. The 
involvement of start-ups is also specifically encouraged. 
Proposals should include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined in the 
introduction to this Destination. 
This topic implements the co-programmed European Partnership Textiles for the Future. 
