HORIZON-CL4-2026-01-MAT-PROD-13: Monitoring of secondary raw materials 
(CSA) 
Call: INDUSTRY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 4.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To increase EU resilience in raw materials supply chains and thus reduce 
the serious risk to the Union's strategic assets, economic and societal 
interests, autonomy and security associated with the current EU reliance 
on a few third countries for critical raw materials, by increasing 
sustainable and responsible sourcing of primary and secondary raw 
materials necessary to enable the green and digital transition and in 
alignment with the objectives of the Critical Raw Materials Act 70 , 
participation in this topic is limited to legal entities established in 
Member States, associated countries, OECD countries, African Union 
Member States, MERCOSUR, CARIFORUM, Andean Community and 
countries with which the EU has concluded strategic partnerships on raw 
materials 71  as well as trade agreements (or association/economic 
partnership or equivalent agreements, including the new Clean Trade 
and Investment Partnerships) containing raw materials cooperation 
provisions (i.e. Energy and Raw materials chapters) 72. The choice of 
these countries was made taking into consideration the development of 
strategic international partnerships on raw materials and avoidance of 
reinforcing existing over -dependencies, as well as the importance of 
involving partners committed to pursuing open trade in such materials. 
Proposals including legal entities which are not established in the 
 
countries that fall under the criteria above will be ineligible. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed above, in order to 
guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of the Union and its 
Member States, entities established in an eligible country listed above, 
but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a non -eligible country 
or a non-eligible country entity, shall not participate in the action. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 73. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
• Enhanced knowledge base of secondary raw materials in the EU and third countries, 
including their potential, resource estimation, production, refining processes and 
biodiversity footprint; 
• Accelerated development of projects leading to commercial exploitation of secondary 
raw materials in the EU; 
• Developed reports analysing future trends in raw materials markets. 
• Identified supply and demand bottlenecks of future secondary raw materials supply; 
• Improved EU raw materials intelligence, strategic planning and foresight capacity.   
Scope: A successful transition to a climate-neutral, biodiversity friendly, circular and digitised 
EU economy relies heavily on a secure supply of raw materials. In order to strengthen EU 
autonomy and reduce over -dependency, we must boost domestic sourcing, both for primary 
and secondary raw materials. 
Actions should be based on a common understanding of relevant terms and codes, and 
develop an understanding of anthropogenic resources and derive the needed aspects for 
 
classification of recovery projects and to develop criteria for a transparent, consistent and 
objective classification, needed to establish a comprehensive resource classification approach. 
Projects should also include the biodiversity footprint of primary and secondary raw materials 
in the expected reports and foresights, using natural capital accounting frameworks. 
Actions should acquire new data on secondary raw materials via in situ sampling from 
different regions across the EU, collect existing data and present in a harmonised UNFC 
format. The monitoring should focus on countries where the waste goes into European 
recycling industrial ecosystems. However, the monitoring must cover the statistics of wastes 
exported from Europe as well as waste flows between Member States. The action could build 
on and advance further the work of UNECE – UNFC expert group on Anthropogenic 
resources regarding the classification of secondary raw materials and the work of Horizon 
Europe project FUTURAM regarding collection of data and information on secondary raw 
materials. Projects could build on the knowledge and models from projects funded under 
HORIZON-CL6-2021-BIODIV-01-15, as well as the UN WCMC natural capital accounting 
frameworks.74  The action should develop a proposal for EU statistics for secondary raw 
materials. 
The action should focus on the following streams of secondary raw materials, with particular 
attention to critical raw materials: waste batteries, WEEE, mining waste, slags and ashes, and 
construction and demolition waste. The action should also anticipate the evolution of WEEE 
directive. 
All the data and information generated through these actions should be shared in open formats 
on a free of charge basis with the European Commission, for its own use and for publication. 
The action should envisage clustering activities with other relevant selected projects for cross-
projects co -operation, consultations and joint activities on cross -cutting issues and share of 
results as well as participating in joint meetings and communication events. To this end 
proposals should foresee a dedicated work package and/or task, and earmark the appropriate 
resources accordingly. 
International cooperation is encouraged with countries with which the EU has signed 
Strategic Partnerships on raw materials, especially with Ukraine.75