HORIZON-CL4-2027-01-MAT-PROD-61: Fast Track to Research and Innovation for 
breakthroughs in industrial technologies (Research and Innovation Action) 
Call: INDUSTRY-FTRI 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
Up to EUR 2.50 million. 
project 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 20.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility conditions The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: consortia may 
include a maximum of 6 independent eligible entities as 
participants. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Indicative timetable for evaluation and grant agreement signature 
will be: 
• Information on the outcome of the evaluation: Maximum 4 
months from the final date for submission; and 
• Indicative date for the signing of grant agreements: Maximum 
6 months from the final date for submission. 
To allow a faster access to funds for small collaborative consortia, 
grants under this topic will be funded under a Fast Track to 
Research and Innovation Procedure (FTRI). 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
• Proposals should describe a credible pathway from their project results and outcomes 
towards the expected impact of this Destination; 
• Proposals should enable open-ended breakthrough innovations in industrial technologies, 
feeding the pipeline of knowledge.  
Scope: This is an open topic, intended to cover breakthrough innovations, up to TRL 4, within 
the scope of the Strategic Research and Innovation Agendas (SRIAs) of the partnerships 
Made in Europe, Process4Planet, Clean Steel, Innovative Advanced Materials for the EU 
(IAM4EU) and Textiles for the Future. 52 Proposals should carefully describe their expected 
contribution to one or more of the R&I objectives of the respective SRIA.