HORIZON-CL4-2026-04-DIGITAL-EMERGING-15: Strengthening the cooperation of 
semiconductor-intensive EU regions (CSA) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
1.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 1.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility conditions The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: The topic's objective is to support semiconductor -intensive regions and 
regional industrial semiconductor clusters working with regional governments. The notion of 
semiconductors includes integrated circuits (chips) with electronic and photonic 
functionalities. 
Regions have an essential role to play in the implementation of EU policies in the field of 
semiconductors. Within their remit they facilitate establishing industrial activities related to 
semiconductor production and services by providing for example construction permits, 
energy, water, infrastructure and often funding. They help creating regional ecosystems 
around big fabs and contribute to structuring clusters of actors across the value chain. 
The expected outcomes are 
• Stronger cooperation of regions (governments and linked industrial clusters) which are 
active across the semiconductor supply chain 
• Contributions to the smart specialisation of regions in the semiconductor area 
• Maps of regional semiconductor ecosystems across the value chain and their connections 
amongst each other and identification of common needs 
• A joint strategy to link and strengthen regional semiconductor ecosystems which may 
possibly lead to increased effectiveness of the Competence Centres originating from the 
Chips for Europe initiative. 
• A sustainable online platform exchanging information on capabilities and best practices, 
guiding potential investors and supporting new entrants intending to specialise in 
semiconductor.  
Scope: The action should pursue its objectives by means of 
• Identifying key local actors in the semiconductor supply chain and their common needs 
• Developing a joint strategy to strengthen the cooperation of semiconductor -intensive 
• Exploring cooperation with the Chips Competence Centres established under the Chips 
JU 
• Evidence gathering on obstacles to semiconductor production investments related to 
framework conditions such as permitting 
• Collecting best practices on overcoming such obstacles and preparing guidelines and 
their dissemination to the respective regional and national public authorities for 
accelerating the construction of semiconductor production infrastructures in Europe.  
The action should support networking and joint work of the involved stakeholders, such as 
e.g. those in the European Semiconductor Regions Alliance (ESRA). 
Beneficiaries that intend to transfer ownership or grant an exclusive licence must formally 
notify the granting authority (i.e. DG -CNECT and HaDEA) before the intended transfer or 
licensing takes place and the granting authority may up to four years after the end of the 
action object to a transfer of ownership or the exclusive licensing of results.