HORIZON-CL4-2026-05-DIGITAL-EMERGING-03: Apply AI: Next -Generation Agile 
and Intelligent Robotics Platforms for Industrial and Service Applications (Partnership 
in AI, Data and Robotics) (RIA) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 12.00 
and 13.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative 
budget 
The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 25.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to achieve the expected outcomes, and safeguard the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, and security, it is important to avoid 
a situation of technological dependency on a non -EU source, in a global 
context that requires the EU to take action to build on its strengths, and to 
carefully assess and address any strategic weaknesses, vulnerabilities and 
high-risk dependencies which put at risk the attainment of its ambitions. 
For this reason, participation is limited to legal entities establ ished in 
Member States, Iceland and Norway and the following additional 
associated countries: Canada, Israel, Republic of Korea, New Zealand, 
Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. In addition, entities established in 
third countries which may become associated to Horizon Europe during 
 
2026 and 2027 may be eligible to participate in this topic if the third 
country is identified for this topic as an eligible country in the List of 
Participating Countries in Horizon Europe at the time of submission of the 
application110. In any case, the association agreement to the Programme 
must apply by the time of the signature of the grant agreement. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed in the paragraph 
above, in order to guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of the 
Union and its Member States, entities established in an eligible country 
listed above, but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a non -
eligible country or by a non -eligible country entity, may not participate in 
the action unless it can be demonstrated, by means of guarantees 
positively assessed by their eligible country of establishment, that their 
participation to the action would not negatively impact the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security. Entities assessed as high -
risk suppliers of mobile network communication equipment within the 
meaning of ‘restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks’ (or entities fully or partially owned or controlled by a high -risk 
supplier) cannot submit guarantees.111 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 2 and achieve TRL 5 by the end of 
the project – see General Annex B. 
 
Expected Outcome : The Apply AI Strategy foresees acceleration pipelines to speed up the 
adoption of AI -powered robotics and ensure continuity from research and innovation to 
deployment. By developing next -generation platforms as common building blocks, this topic 
will support these pipelines across multiple use cases. 
Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Novel robot design technique, materials and control techniques for flexible and 
meticulous manipulation of robots in unstructured environment, with high autonomy and 
in collaboration with humans. 
 
• New generation of flexible and safe robot systems validated in key application sectors 
defined in the Apply AI strategy112, developed with a human-centric approach.  
Scope: Dynamic real -world environments require a new generation of agile, cost-effective, 
and intelligent, and modular robot platforms able to interact in safe and effective manner with 
humans across diverse industrial and service applications. These systems should be easily 
reconfigurable and adaptable, enabling deployment in real -time, high -performance 
operational contexts with minimal integration effort. 
To ensure relevance and uptake, solutions must address industrial demands for high speed, 
precision, and reliability, enabling deployment in real -time, high -performance operational 
contexts. 
Emphasis should be placed on the development of robotic systems that can be seamlessly 
integrated into existing industrial and service workflows, enhancing productivity and 
operational flexibility. 
In order to improve their performances, these platforms should exploit latest development in 
terms of new design methods, including non -rigid structures and advanced materials (e.g. 
composite materials), both for the main body and for manipulators and end effectors, 
alongside innovative actuation and sensing approaches that go beyond traditional fixed 
rotational or linear links. 
Proposals should target robotic systems addressing high impact needs in strategic industrial 
and service sectors. These systems should focus on enhanced mobility, autonomy, and 
simplified control architectures to support safe, efficient, and flexible operation. Integration of 
advanced sensors (e.g. touch, proximity, vision) is essential to enable reliable human -robot 
interaction, especially in rare or unpredictable safety -critical scenarios, addressing current 
limitations of AI in such contexts. 
They should also include the design of secure and efficient communication protocols to 
ensure interoperability between robotic systems and digital frameworks or multi -agent 
environments. 
Collaboration with end -users and industry partners is encouraged to validate the practical 
applicability and impact of the proposed robotic solutions. 
To ensure practical uptake, projects are expected to demonstrate clear pathways to scalability 
and commercial deployment, engage with industry partners and end -users for validation, 
adopt a safety-product approach 
Coordination with HORIZON -CL4-2025-04-DIGITAL-EMERGING-05, focused on soft 
robotics, is encouraged to maximise impact and ensure complementarity in advancing 
physical capabilities of next-generation robotic systems. 
 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on AI, data, and robotics 
(ADRA), and all proposals are expected to allocate tasks for cohesion activities with ADRA.