HORIZON-CL4-2027-01-MAT-PROD-06: Circular innovative advanced materials: 
facilitating the transition from design to markets (RIA) (Innovative Advanced Materials 
for the EU and Made in Europe partnerships) 
Call: INDUSTRY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
5.00 and 6.50 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
 
project appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 36.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined 
in the introduction to this Destination, the page limit in part B of the 
General Annexes is exceptionally extended by 3 pages. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 4 -5 and achieve TRL 6 by the 
end of the project – see General Annex B. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced portfolio covering strategic value chains, grants 
will be awarded to applications not only in order of ranking but at least 
also to one proposal that is the highest ranked from each of the 
following areas: (i) energy and (ii) construction; provided that the 
applications attain all thresholds. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 43. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
• Innovative advanced materials designed for circularity are adopted in products faster, 
through accelerated production and technology uptake; 
 
• Business models become available to enhance the use of circular advanced materials in 
strategic value chains; and 
• Resource efficiency (materials and energy) is increased significantly through a focus on 
circular advanced materials.  
• Quality standards, harmonisation and regulatory requirements are addressed facilitating 
simplified market transition.  
Scope: The focus of this topic is on enabling circularity and resilient supply networks through 
R&I in advanced materials, in particular recyclable polymers and composites, magnets and 
metal (alloys) for additive manufacturing, and on accelerating their pathway to market. 
Proposals should develop new innovative advanced materials (IAMs) with superior or novel 
functionalities designed for circularity. The scope includes necessary developments of related 
processes and technologies to ensure integration in industrial manufacturing facilitating 
uptake of the developed solutions. Proposals should also develop circular business models 
considering the cost of changes needed along the life cycle of these new materials to facilitate 
their uptake. 
The scope covers the full innovation cycle from the design for circularity and functional 
integration (new materials designs), development and scaleup (including scalable recovery, 
recycling and valorisation at end of life), to demonstration of industrial uptake and integration 
into products. The transformative potential of the developed solutions is to be showcased by 
demonstrators and industrial use cases. Projects should also explore possibilities to transfer 
developed solutions to other applications or sectors.  
The SSbD framework 44  should guide the innovation process towards safer and more 
sustainable chemicals and advanced materials. Where relevant data generated within the 
proposal may be shared with the Common Data Platform for Chemicals. The new alternatives 
to be developed should meet the technical functions required in the specific applications while 
aligning their innovation process decision making with such framework. 
Best use of digital tools and FAIR data, including AI and data -driven approaches throughout 
the innovation process should support the circular transition for industry and circular product 
design. This includes sharing FAIR and interoperable data and tools across supply networks 
and value chains, to foster circularity, including data needed for materials and component 
development, production and circular product design. 
The approach should foster collaboration among stakeholders along the innovation chain and 
industrial value networks to accelerate the development and adoption of new circular 
solutions. 
Projects should build on, or seek collaboration with, existing projects in EU Member States 
and Associated Countries and develop synergies with other relevant European, national or 
 
regional initiatives, funding programmes and platforms, in particular with the Materials 
Commons for Europe.  
Proposals should support strategic value chains in the fields of energy and construction. The 
portfolio approach will be used to fund at least one proposal from each of these two. 
Proposers should declare in their proposal the main application area of their proposal (i.e., 
energy or construction). 
Proposals should include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined in the 
introduction to this Destination. 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnerships Innovative Advanced 
Materials for the EU (IAM4EU) and Made in Europe (MiE).