HORIZON-CL4-2026-04-DIGITAL-EMERGING-01: Apply AI: Pilot of the “Science 
for AI” Pillar of RAISE (“Resource for AI science in Europe”) (RIA) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
17.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 17.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 2 and achieve TRL 4 by the end 
of the project – see General Annex B. 
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The following additions to the general award criteria apply: 
Quality and Efficiency of Implementation:  
• Scientific Excellence: the scientific excellence of each participant 
will be assessed based on the scientific credentials of its senior AI 
researchers. A clear majority (at least 60%) of the participant's 
senior AI researchers should demonstrate substantial scientific 
excellence. Examples of evidence for scientific excellence in 
Artificial Intelligence include, but are not limited to, consistent 
publications in top -tier venues; significant research impact as 
reflected by recognised metrics such as the h-index (the number of 
publications that have each been cited at least that many times); 
recognized real -world applications; receipt of prestigious awards 
and substantial competitive grants; membership on editorial 
boards of leading AI journals; and invited talks at internationally 
recognized AI conferences. 
• Infrastructure: each participant should possess dedicated premises 
and infrastructure necessary for high -quality AI research, along 
with administrative and technical support services. 
• Size: each participant should have at least ten distinct AI research 
groups. Each research group should typically comprise a minimum 
of five researchers, including at least one senior AI researcher. 
Alternative configurations demonstrating equivalent capacity 
(approximately 50 total dedicated researchers in AI) will also be 
considered acceptable. 
• Legal Structure: each participant should have the requisite legal 
framework enabling them to effectively manage personnel, 
negotiate and execute contracts, and manage intellectual property 
rights. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: This pilot supports the Apply AI Strategy 96, particularly its research and 
innovation efforts, which aims to advance core AI capabilities, especially in frontier AI, and 
support fundamental AI research. The initiative will pool strategic resources to push the 
technological frontiers of AI and drive scientific breakthroughs, ensuring that the project 
contributes to the EU's goal of maintaining European leadership in AI research. Project results 
are expected to contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Set up a network of excellent AI Labs in the EU and Associated Countries, raising 
visibility and strengthening collaboration in European AI research 
• Establish a model of cooperation among these labs and support the development of a 
strategic research agenda for fundamental research in AI. 
• Ensure that the network operates as a virtual institute across Europe, pooling resources 
and expertise. 
• Develop synergies with the AI in science efforts in RAISE. 
• Stimulate and support world -class research in AI, both fundamental and applied 
research. Building on Europe’s research strength, attract collaboration with industry and 
excellent AI talent.  
Scope: Ensuring Europe's technological sovereignty in AI requires reinforcing and leveraging 
Europe's strengths, particularly its world-class AI research community. 
The selected consortium should be composed by leading European AI research institutions. 
These AI research institutes should be entities with legal structure, dedicated facilities and, a 
significant number of research teams focusing on AI research. This category also includes 
multidisciplinary research institutions that host AI -focused branches meeting these criteria. 
The consortium will pilot a network of excellent European AI research institutes that will 
collaboratively address fundamental AI research topics, pushing the frontier of the domain. 
Participants will cooperate within a virtual institute, attracting talents, stimulating industrial 
initiatives, providing inputs for moonshot projects and developing research agendas for the 
ones retained by the EC. A substantial share of the project effort should be dedicated to 
advancing research. 
To achieve these objectives, the consortium will undertake a range of dedicated activities: 
• The project will draw an ambitious strategic research agenda towards the next frontier in 
AI (in 5 years), including explicit targets and milestones; 
 
• The coordination of the participating institutes and their research in AI will be driven by 
a world class AI research program. The defined programmes will guide collaborative 
efforts and ensure a cohesive approach to advancing fundamental AI. Collaboration will, 
among other, be reinforced by jointly supervised PhDs and Postdocs. 
• The implementation of a world class AI research program, supporting PhDs and 
Postdocs as well as jointly agreed collaborative research projects , functioning as a 
distributed "European AI Institute," reflecting the RAISE initiative's long -term vision 
and enhancing collaboration.  
This topic will bring together excellent AI research Institutes in Europe to further develop 
basic science in AI. Given the importance of such consortium, every participating institution 
will have to demonstrate its excellence in AI Research through a number of objective criteria. 
To ensure openness, during the first year, the project will establish a call for expressions of 
interest to identify additional leading European AI research labs and individual experts that 
may collaborate with the project through joint activities or other forms of cooperation to 
support the expected outcomes and the dedicated activities described in this topic. Proposals 
should describe the type of actions planned for these collaborations. Appropriate budget and 
effort should be allocated to ensure that such collaborations complement the network’s 
expertise and strengthen the implementation of the roadmap. 
This initiative will also work in close collaboration with other initiatives in the European AI 
landscape, such as existing Networks of Excellence, AI societies and associations, and with 
the fundamental research activities in AI taking place in the horizontal call HORIZON -
RAISE and in the EIC pathfinder initiatives to be integrated in RAISE. All proposals are 
expected to allocate tasks for cohesion activities with the CSA HORIZON -CL4-2025-03-
HUMAN-18: GenAI4EU central Hub. 
The project selected in this topic should link to the resources offered by the AI Factories and 
the Data Labs and exploit the various tools offered by the AI-on-demand-platform to share the 
result and further develop the community. 
Beneficiaries that intend to transfer ownership or grant an exclusive licence must formally 
notify the granting authority (i.e. DG -CNECT and HaDEA) before the intended transfer or 
licensing takes place and the granting authority may up to four years after the end of the 
action object to a transfer of ownership or the exclusive licensing of results.