HORIZON-CL4-2027-01-MAT-PROD-02: Advanced manufacturing for key products 
(IA) (Made in Europe partnership) 
Call: INDUSTRY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
6.00 and 8.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 36.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to include a business case and exploitation strategy, as 
outlined in the introduction to this Destination, the page limit in part 
B of the General Annexes is exceptionally extended by 3 pages. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 5 and achieve TRL 7 by the 
end of the project – see General Annex B. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
• Advanced manufacturing technology and machinery becomes available in Europe for the 
manufacturing of key and high-performance products; 
 
• Where relevant, production becomes increasingly circular through the reuse of 
secondary raw materials; and/or innovative advanced materials are incorporated in 
manufactured products, leading to better performance and quality;  
• Resource efficiency in terms of materials and energy is increased significantly; and 
• Circularity, productivity and competitiveness are increased, and hence resilience of 
European industry is enhanced.   
Scope: This topic addresses technologies and machinery for advanced manufacturing, 
focusing on manufacturing excellence and on increasing circularity, including through the 
better use of innovative advanced materials and secondary raw materials. The focus is on key 
manufactured components and products that are competitive and have enhanced performance, 
and contribute to Europe’s technological leadership in manufacturing, but which are at risk of 
being lost to Europe or rely on raw materials or parts whose supply is mostly coming from 
outside Europe. 
Proposals should develop technologies and machinery to enable the manufacturing of these 
components with a minimal use of critical raw materials [reference to overall targets] or 
imported materials. This includes an increased use of secondary raw materials or biobased 
materials or revalorised components. 
Where appropriate to enhance performance and quality, proposals should target the use of 
innovative advanced materials (such as lightweight, functionalised or self -healing materials). 
In this case, the development of the advanced materials should not be the main focus of 
proposals, nevertheless the necessary steps to adapt such innovative advanced materials to the 
needs of the manufacturing application should be included. These can include digital twins for 
materials as well as SSbD-design steps. 
Examples of advanced manufacturing technologies and machinery include, but are not 
restricted to: 
• Innovative additive manufacturing; 
• Hybrid manufacturing (additive, subtractive); 
• Photonics; 
• Advanced joining technologies; 
• Polymer composite manufacturing;  
• Advanced technologies for surface treatment and structuring, to tailor surface properties 
for specific applications; 
• Manufacturing of components with lightweight materials; and 
• In-line testing.   
Proposals should include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined in the 
introduction to this Destination.  
Applications in the automotive industry may be considered. However, the production of 
batteries is not within the scope of this topic.37 
International cooperation is encouraged, especially with Japan or Taiwan. 
This topic implements the co-programmed European Partnership Made in Europe.