HORIZON-CL4-2027-01-MAT-PROD-22: Innovative advanced materials and new 
production processes – reducing dependencies on Critical and Strategic Raw Materials 
(IA) (Innovative Advanced Materials for the EU and Processes4Planet partnerships) 
Call: INDUSTRY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
6.00 and 7.50 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 36.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined 
in the introduction to this Destination, the page limit in part B of the 
General Annexes is exceptionally extended by 3 pages. 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To increase EU resilience in raw materials supply chains and thus 
reduce the serious risk to the Union's strategic assets, economic and 
societal interests, autonomy and security associated with the current EU 
reliance on a few third countries for critical raw materials, by increasing 
sustainable and responsible sourcing of primary and secondary raw 
materials necessary to enable the green and digital transition and in 
alignment with the objectives of the Critical Raw Materials Act 25 , 
participation in this topic is limited to legal entities established in 
Member States, associated countries, OECD countries, African Union 
Member States, MERCOSUR, CARIFORUM, Andean Community and 
 
countries with which the EU has concluded strategic partnerships on 
raw materials 26 as well as trade agreements (or association/economic 
partnership or equivalent agreements, including the new Clean Trade 
and Investment Partnerships) containing raw materials cooperation 
provisions (i.e. Energy and Raw materials chapters) 27. The choice of 
these countries was made taking into consideration the development of 
strategic international partnerships on raw materials and avoidance of 
reinforcing existing over -dependencies, as well as the importance of 
involving partners committed to pursuing open trade in such materials. 
Proposals including legal entities which are not established in the 
countries that fall under the criteria above will be ineligible. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed above, in order to 
guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of the Union and its 
Member States, entities established in an eligible country listed above, 
but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a non -eligible country 
or a non-eligible country entity, shall not participate in the action. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 5 and achieve TRL 7 by the end 
of the project – see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
• Reducing dependencies of critical and strategic raw materials through partial or total 
substitution by safe and sustainable innovative advanced materials and/or via more 
efficient use of critical and strategic raw materials in production processes; 
• Speeding up the innovation cycle within value chain(s) important for European industry; 
• Enhancing competitiveness of the industries and operational costs, while making supply 
chains more secure; 
• New or improved production processes, innovative advanced materials and products that 
are safer and more sustainable, supporting a clean and autonomous economy; and 
 
• Demonstrating how the safe and sustainable by design (SSbD) chemicals and materials 
framework can guide innovation.  
Scope: The focus of this topic is on alternatives for the substitution or more efficient use of 
critical and strategic raw materials 28. The design and development of innovative advanced 
materials (IAMs) and processes should lead to an innovation cycle covering the (re)design of 
materials and production processes, and the integration of IAMs into products. 
Proposals should develop IAMs or process technologies to replace or reduce the use of critical 
and strategic raw materials in strategic areas and sectors such as energy, mobility, 
construction, electronics, medical devices or chemical industries. 
Proposals should address one or several of the following approaches: 
• Design, development and production with targets on performance, safety and 
sustainability of IAMs substituting or making a more efficient use of critical and 
strategic raw materials. 
• Innovative industrial processes for the reduction of the use of critical and strategic raw 
materials focussed on optimizing process safety, sustainability, flexibility, scalability, 
cost-efficiency. 
• Co-development strategies for IAMs and industrial processes. These strategies should 
demonstrate the value of co -development through specific use cases while maintaining 
broad relevance across various materials and process types.  
Proposals should demonstrate clear use case(s), market and potential to grow. The substitution 
barriers for the selected applications should be identified and a driving mechanism for a 
maximal substitution in the targeted value chains proposed. 
The scope includes necessary adaptations of related processes and technologies to ensure 
alignment with and integration in industrial manufacturing in order to facilitate the uptake of 
the developed solutions. If relevant, challenges for the adaption of existing production lines 
should be identified and solutions proposed. 
Proposals should demonstrate that SSbD framework 29  will be applied throughout the 
innovation process, showing that safety and sustainability principles are actively integrated 
and influence decision -making in a transparent and traceable way, and ensure that the data 
generated within the proposal may be shared with the Common Data Platform for Chemicals. 
The new alternatives to be developed should meet the technical functions required in the 
specific applications while aligning their innovation process decision making with such 
framework. 
 
Proposals should include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined in the 
introduction to this Destination. 
Proposals are encouraged to cooperate with relevant projects. Where relevant, proposals 
should actively contribute to and cooperate with the EU Innovation and Substitution Hub(s) 30. 
Proposals should allocate the necessary resources to the proposed activities 
This topic implements the co -programmed European partnerships Innovative Advanced 
Materials for the EU (IAM4EU) and Processes4Planet.