HORIZON-CL4-2027-01-MAT-PROD-17: Expert network on Critical raw materials 
(CSA) 
Call: INDUSTRY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 3.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 3.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To increase EU resilience in raw materials supply chains and thus reduce 
the serious risk to the Union's strategic assets, economic and societal 
interests, autonomy and security associated with the current EU reliance 
on a few third countries for critical raw materials, by increasing 
sustainable and responsible sourcing of primary and secondary raw 
materials necessary to enable the green and digital transition and in 
alignment with the objectives of the Critical Raw Materials Act 85 , 
participation in this topic is limited to legal entities established in 
Member States, associated countries, OECD countries, African Union 
Member States, MERCOSUR, CARIFORUM, Andean Community and 
countries with which the EU has concluded strategic partnerships on raw 
materials 86  as well as trade agreements (or association/economic 
partnership or equivalent agreements, including the new Clean Trade 
 
and Investment Partnerships) containing raw materials cooperation 
provisions (i.e. Energy and Raw materials chapters) 87. The choice of 
these countries was made taking into consideration the development of 
strategic international partnerships on raw materials and avoidance of 
reinforcing existing over -dependencies, as well as the importance of 
involving partners committed to pursuing open trade in such materials. 
Proposals including legal entities which are not established in the 
countries that fall under the criteria above will be ineligible. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed above, in order to 
guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of the Union and its 
Member States, entities established in an eligible country listed above, 
but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a non -eligible country 
or a non-eligible country entity, shall not participate in the action. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 88. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
• Strengthening the expert capacity in the EU in a wide range of raw materials along the 
whole value chain; 
• Better informed and more effective decision -making by the EU and National policy 
makers and the producers and users of raw materials regarding the supply and demand of 
raw materials and the associated environmental and social aspects; 
• Improved EU official statistics and building the EU knowledge base of primary and 
secondary raw materials.   
 
Scope: Actions should strengthen an EU expert network and community covering all raw 
materials screened in the critical raw materials assessment of 2027. Flexibility in screening 
additional raw materials will be an added value. 
The consortium should build the EU expert community covering each screened raw material 
with expertise on primary and secondary resources; production, including exploration, 
mining, processing, recycling and refining; substitution of critical raw materials; raw 
materials markets; future demand and supply; supply risk management and stress tests; 
materials flows; raw materials standardisation; environmental footprint, socio -economic 
analysis, and strategic value chains and end -use sectors, including batteries, e -mobility, 
renewable energy, electronics, security and aerospace. 
The actions should contribute to the EU policy making related to critical raw materials, in 
particular to the implementation of the Critical Raw Materials Act, including the development 
of the new list of critical raw materials and their specific applications or sectors. The action is 
expected to coordinate with the Commission regarding the events and reflect the EU policy 
planning. 
The actions should also improve data and knowledge on all screened raw materials and the 
analysis of the future supply and demand of raw materials, their environmental footprint, 
technology gaps and innovation potential along the raw materials value chains. 
The action should update the data and information fact sheets from the previous criticality 
exercise for all screened raw materials, and ensure their quality by relevant raw material 
experts. Factsheets are to be finalised by the end of 2029, and could be fine -tuned before 
publication expected in 2030. 
The action is expected to organise two expert validation workshops in 2029 to support the EU 
criticality assessment, and validate draft factsheets for all screened materials. In coordination 
with the Commission, organise in -depth workshops on several strategic metals for renewable 
energy, e-mobility and aero-space and security / dual use, with recognised commodity experts 
from industry and other organisations. 
The data and information produced by the action shall be shared with the Commission at free 
of charge basis. 
The action should envisage clustering activities with other relevant selected projects for cross-
projects co -operation, consultations and joint activities on cross -cutting issues and share of 
results as well as participating in joint meetings and communication events. To this end 
proposals should foresee a dedicated work package and/or task, and earmark the appropriate 
resources accordingly.