HORIZON-CL4-2026-SPACE-03-81: Space critical EEE components for EU non -
dependence – Radiation Hard FPGA on 7nm 
Call: SPACE 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
12.00 and 13.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 12.74 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The page limit of the application is 80 pages. 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
In order to achieve the expected outcomes, and safeguard the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security, participation is limited to 
legal entities established in Member States, Norway and Iceland. 
Proposals including entities established in countries outside the scope 
specified in the call/topic/action will be ineligible. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed in the paragraph 
above, in order to guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of the 
Union and its Member States, entities established in an eligible country 
listed above, but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a non -
eligible country or by a non -eligible country entity, may not participate in 
the action unless it can be demonstrated, by means of guarantees 
positively assessed by their eligible country of establishment, that their 
participation to the action would not negatively impact the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security. Entities assessed as high-
risk suppliers of mobile network communication equipment within the 
meaning of ‘restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks’ (or entities fully or partially owned or controlled by a high -risk 
supplier) cannot submit guarantees.167 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 by the end of the project. The 
reference TRL definition is the ISO 16290:2013 applicable to the space 
sector. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The evaluation committee will be composed partially by representatives 
of EU institutions. 
Security 
Sensitive Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Reinforcing EU strategic autonomy by reducing non -EU dependencies on critical space 
EEE components and related technologies across their entire supply chain; 
• Providing unrestricted access to critical space EEE components and related technologies 
relevant for EU space missions (Galileo, EGNOS, Copernicus, IRIS 2 and EU pilot 
missions on In-Orbit Space Operations and Quantum Gravimetry); 
• Developing or regaining capacity to operate independently in space by developing 
resilient space EEE components and related technologies supply chains, relying on EU 
supply chains and/or trustable and reliable supply chains not affected by non -EU export 
restrictions; 
 
• Enhancing competitiveness by developing products and capabilities reaching equivalent 
or superior performance level than those from outside the EU and compete at worldwide 
level.  
Scope: Unrestricted access to state-of-art space EEE components and related technologies is a 
pre-requisite for the EU space industry responding to EU space missions. However, especially 
for some families of components, the available solutions in EU do not meet the current high -
performance space requirements. Currently, alternative products sourced from outside EU, are 
either affected by non-EU export control, that limits its use, or present challenges in terms of 
trustable supply chains for the implementation of EU space missions with a security 
dimension. 
Within the frame of this topic, it is expected to finance and implement a development project 
aiming at maturing critical space EEE components with the final goal of lowering the 
dependency from outside EU. This will be done by establishing a long -term sustainable 
supply chain for supporting EU strategic autonomy in the space sector. The selection of the 
supply chains shall reflect this objective. Therefore, the supply chain shall preferably be built 
fully based in EU and when this can only be achieved partially (i.e. because of lack of current 
EU capabilities for unrestricted advanced semiconductor processes or advanced materials that 
cannot be developed within the project), services procured from outside EU shall nevertheless 
ensure that the overall supply chain will remain trustable and not affected by non -EU export 
control. The latest scenario is subject to the approval of the granting authority. 
The space EEE component and related technologies relevant for this topic has been identified 
based on needs related to strategic institutional space programs, inputs from European 
stakeholders and the EU Observatory of Critical Technologies. It is radiation hard FPGA on 
7nm. Further details will be provided at the latest at the opening of the Call, in a Guidance 
document published on the Funding & Tenders Portal. 
Space is a low volume market affected by a dynamic industrial landscape compared to the 
terrestrial market therefore, technological spin in and/or bilateral collaborations should be 
enhanced between European non-space and space industries. Furthermore, proposed activities 
should be complementary to relevant national or other activities at European level. 
Complementary activities should be clearly identified, described and the proposal should 
report how the complementarity is ensured. 
To achieve the non -dependence objective, applicants are expected to include a dedicated 
proposal’s paragraph covering: 
• The description of the technology and/or technology processes and high -level 
breakdown of the space EEE component supply chain to be used. Applicants should 
demonstrate that the supply chain and final product are free of any legal export 
restrictions or limitations, such as those established in the International Traffic in Arms 
Regulations (ITAR) or equivalent instruments applicable in other non -EU jurisdictions. 
Applicants shall also report, in a dedicated subsection, if and which part of the supply 
chain is affected by non-EU export controls such as the Export Administration regulation 
(EAR) i.e. EAR99. 
• The description of the suitable technology development process that has been identified 
and set up within the consortium for avoiding export restrictions of non -EU states and 
assess vulnerabilities of the supply chain.  
Proposals covering space EEE components and related technology developments that are 
targeting a final TRL equal or higher than 5 should include a list of proposed applicable 
standards or technical guidance (e.g. EN, ECSS, ESCC, MIL, JEDEC,…) that are considered 
relevant for implementing a formal space evaluation and/or qualification. Additionally, 
projects that aim at a formal space qualification should include as deliverable the full data 
pack planned to be submitted to the qualification authority. This deliverable should be marked 
sensitive. Hardware that will successfully complete the space evaluation/qualification is 
expected promote the EU support by displaying the EU emblem on the package. 
The proposal is expected to include specific tasks as part of the work plan and related 
dedicated confidential deliverables to be provided within six months from the start of the 
project, with the objective of:   
1. Analysing and describing, in detail, the full supply chain, each entity and its role in the 
supply chain, level of criticality and, if relevant, identify dependencies from outside EU; 
2. Describing the industrial technical roadmap and a business plan for commercialization 
with accurate understanding of applications needs, space mission insertion, including 
time to market indication, of the developed product. 
3. Reporting the list of relevant non -EU export control with extra territorial applicability 
for the specific technology/product under development, independently from the supply 
chain established for the EU-COM project. 
4. Undertaking a comprehensive literature review of the relevant technology/product 
reporting the state -of-the-art and highlighting potential gaps between current EU 
solutions and competition from outside EU.  
Unless otherwise agreed with the granting authority, beneficiaries must ensure that none of 
the entities that participate as subcontractors are established in countries which are not eligible 
as set out in the call conditions. 
The consortium as a whole and individual beneficiaries should ensure that, for a period of up 
to four years after the end of the project, supply and availability of the hardware, 
manufacturing, assembly processes developed and/or qualified within the project should be 
made available to any entity in the EU plus Norway and Iceland, at fair and reasonable market 
prices and conditions and with no legal restrictions and limitations stemming for example 
from International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) or eq uivalent instruments applicable 
in non-EU jurisdictions. Additionally, beneficiaries that intend to transfer ownership or grant 
an exclusive licence must formally notify the granting authority before the intended transfer 
or licensing takes place; the granting authority may, up to four years after the end of the 
project, object to a transfer of ownership or the exclusive licensing of results. 
In this topic, the integration of the gender dimension (sex and gender analysis) in research and 
innovation content is not relevant.