HORIZON-CL4-2026-SPACE-03-11: Reinforcing EU autonomous access to space 
through EU-based spaceports 
Call: SPACE 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
10.00 and 15.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 22.59 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
In order to achieve the expected outcomes, and safeguard the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security, participation is limited 
to legal entities established in Member States, Norway and Iceland. 
Proposals including entities established in countries outside the scope 
specified in the call/topic/action will be ineligible. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed in the paragraph 
above, in order to guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of 
the Union and its Member States, entities established in an eligible 
country listed above, but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a 
non-eligible country or by a non -eligible country entity, may not 
participate in the action unless it can be demonstrated, by means of 
guarantees positively assessed by their eligible country of 
establishment, that their participation to the action would not negatively 
impact the Union’s strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security. 
Entities assessed as high -risk suppliers of mobile network 
communication equipment within the meaning of ‘restrictions for the 
protection of European communication networks’ (or entities fully or 
partially owned or controlled by a high -risk supplier) cannot submit 
guarantees.138 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 8 by the end of the project. The 
reference TRL definition is the ISO 16290:2013 applicable to the space 
sector. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
 
the Grant 
Agreements 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 139. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following outcomes: 
• Reinforcing EU strategic autonomy by reducing non -EU dependencies for accessing 
space; 
• Providing an EU access to space necessary for EU space missions through state of the art 
and innovative solutions; 
• Diversifying the access to space providers in the EU; 
• Contributing to expand commercial access to space offers and services in the EU; 
• Reinforcing Access to Space to ensure that Europe maintains and improve autonomous, 
reliable and cost-effective access to space.   
Scope: The EU needs to improve the resilience of its access to space for the implementation 
of EU space programme. New entrants will contribute to this endeavour. 
Projects are expected to support EU launch service providers to set up launch pad(s) in the EU 
territory enabling to perform EU launch services. 
Projects are expected to contribute to the development of necessary ground facilities to 
conduct launch services from the EU territory; e.g. launch integration, storage and operation 
facilities, launch pad and complex, control command facility, payload processing and 
integration facilities, tracking means, safety means, propellant storage... 
EU launch service provider(s) are expected to be part of the project consortium and be the 
ultimate users of the resulting facilities making use of EU launch vehicles for providing EU 
launch services. 
Proposals under this topic should explore synergies and be complementary to past actions 
related to ground segment for launch services, in particular the topics: HORIZON -CL4-2023-
SPACE-01-23 and HORIZON-CL4-2025-02-SPACE-11. 
All the activities should be complementary with national and ESA on -going or future 
activities, in particular those decided at the ESA council Ministerial Meeting in November 
2025. 
 
In this topic, the integration of the gender dimension (sex and gender analysis) in research and 
innovation content should be addressed only if relevant in relation to the objectives of the 
research effort.