HORIZON-CL4-2026-04-HUMAN-02: Web 4.0 architectural framework and Open 
Internet Stack applications for virtual worlds (RIA) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
2.80 and 8.40 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 16.80 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced portfolio covering all the areas described in the 
scope, grants will be awarded to proposals not only in order of ranking 
but at least also to one proposal that is the highest ranked within each 
area, provided that the proposals attain all thresholds. Only one proposal 
in the “Architectural Framework” area will be selected. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
For “Architectural Framework” Area 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties. The support 
to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 300 000 to 
allow 1/ cases where a given legal entity may receive several grants 
(e.g. from different calls) 2/ reaching the maturity level for third party’s 
project to ensure sustainability with multiple awards. To support and 
mobilise internet innovators, a maximum of 70% of the total proposed 
budget could be allocated to financial support to third parties, selected 
through open calls. 
For the “Applications” Area 
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties. The support 
to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The 
maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 300 000 to 
allow 1/ cases where a given legal entity may receive several grants 
(e.g. from different calls) 2/ reaching the maturity level for third party’s 
project to ensure sustainability with multiple awards. To support and 
mobilise internet innovators, a maximum of 20% of the total proposed 
budget could be alloc ated to financial support to third parties, selected 
through open calls. 
 
Expected Outcome: Common expected outcome 
Stimulate the emergence at European and global scale of Web 4.0 (such as standards, 
protocols, components and a framework for their interaction) and virtual worlds solutions. 
Expected outcome for the “Architectural Framework” area 
• An emerging Web 4.0 architectural framework made of cross -platforms, interoperable, 
trustable, safe and secure building blocks that rely on Open Source software 
• A structured and agile eco -system of talented contributors driving the creation and 
evolution of commons based on Open Source software, open standards and open 
hardware and designs.  
Expected outcome for the “Applications” area 
• Open source and made in Europe, supporting trust and sovereignty, and delivering 
credible alternative choices for citizens, governments and companies including start -ups 
and SMEs. 
• Interoperable, standards -based, decentralised solutions exploiting extended reality 
technologies. 
• Compliant-by-design with EU rules and regulations. Paced for easy deployment by the 
rich European eco-systems of providers, integrators and verticals.  
For both areas the outcome will bring synergies with actions under Virtual worlds, Open 
Internet Stack, 3C, as well as with other like -minded actions in Europe e.g. at Member States
level and outside  
Scope: Proposals should address one of the following areas and should clearly identify the 
area addressed. 
1/ “Architectural Framework” area 
Develop a human-centric Web 4.0 architectural framework encompassing interoperable layers 
from open hardware, web, AI agents, up to immersive and decentralised applications, utilizing 
cross-platform digital commons developed by European innovators (SMEs, start -ups, 
academia). Proposals should demonstrate immersive multi -modal user interaction and should 
enhance trust, privacy, portability, and advanced identity management, facilitating 
deployment of the EU Wallet while optimizing the balance between decentralization, security, 
and energy efficiency with verifiable metrics. 
2/ “Applications” area 
Proposals will cover the one or more of the following technologies: 
• Alternative decentralised applications and services such as synchronous and 
asynchronous messaging, videoconferencing, collaboration and groupware or social 
media that can be exploited through Virtual Worlds technologies, including immersion 
and interaction. 
• App-stores (incl. web-based) adapted for Virtual Worlds 
• Shared, robust and trustworthy cross -technology Virtual Worlds for user and attribute 
management  
Proposals will have to demonstrate (1) technical maturity in terms of scalability, resiliency, 
alignment with standards (2) critical mass of communities actively supporting the 
development (3) evidence of interest from users and deployers of the solutions. 
Cross-cutting requirements for both areas: 
Applicants should define the mechanisms for maturing building blocks e.g. security and 
accessibility audits, packaging of the software for easy deployment, localisation of the 
software in EU languages, documentation of best practices and advising on licensing. 
Applicants should detail the path to growth for building blocks e.g. by defining a clear 
standardisation strategy, actively animating communities, creating momentum among like -
minded efforts, defining how projects will gain critical mass and what services will be 
provided for reaching such stage, and providing a coherent picture of the portfolio for 
adopters 
Applicants should create the conditions for successful collaboration and synergies with other 
European initiatives such as the Virtual Worlds/Web 4.0, 3C and Open Internet Stack 
initiatives as well as with like-minded funding efforts at national, European levels and beyond 
Europe such as Digital Commons initiatives. 
Applicants should demonstrate their experience and understanding of Open Source 
communities and their expertise covering the full Open Source life cycle through proven track 
record including years of experience. 
Beneficiaries that intend to transfer ownership or grant an exclusive licence must formally 
notify the granting authority (i.e. DG -CNECT and HaDEA) before the intended transfer or 
licensing takes place and the granting authority may up to four years after the end of the 
action object to a transfer of ownership or the exclusive licensing of results. 
Financial support to third parties 
If applicants opt for financial support to third parties, then they should target calls towards 
European Open Source communities – SMEs, research institutes and individual researchers 
and developers – with solid experience with development of solutions in line with EU rules 
and values. Applicants should provide the programme logic for the third -party projects, 
managing the projects lifecycle, and provide the necessary technical and non -technical 
support: these tasks cannot be implemented using the budget earmarked for the financial 
support to third parties.