HORIZON-CL4-2026-04-HUMAN-01: Developing and demonstrating core technologies 
for Virtual Worlds and Web 4.0 (IA) (Virtual worlds Partnership) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 4.00 
and 5.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative 
budget 
The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 30.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to achieve the expected outcomes, and safeguard the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, and security, it is important to avoid 
a situation of technological dependency on a non -EU source, in a global 
context that requires the EU to take action to build on its strengths, and to 
carefully assess and address any strategic weaknesses, vulnerabilities and 
high-risk dependencies which put at risk the attainment of its ambitions. 
For this reason, participation is limited to legal entities established in 
Member States, Iceland and Norway and the following additional 
associated countries: Canada, Israel, Republic of Korea, New Zealand, 
Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. In addition, entities established in 
third countries which may become associated to Horizon Europe during 
2026 and 2027 may be eligible to participate in this topic if the third 
country is identified for this topic as an eligible country in the List of 
Participating Countries in Horizon Europe at the time of submission of the 
application175. In any case, the association agreement to the Programme 
must apply by the time of the signature of the grant agreement. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed in the paragraph 
above, in order to guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of the 
Union and its Member States, entities established in an eligible country 
listed above, but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a non -
eligible country or by a non -eligible country entity, may not participate in 
the action unless it can be demonstrated, by means of guarantees 
positively assessed by their eligible country of establishment, that their 
participation to the action would not negatively impact the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security. Entities assessed as high -
risk suppliers of mobile network communication equipment within the 
meaning of ‘restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks’ (or entities fully or partially owned or controlled by a high -risk 
supplier) cannot submit guarantees.176 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 4 and achieve TRL 6 by the end of 
the project – see General Annex B. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects are expected to contribute to the following outcomes: 
• eXtended Reality (XR), immersive and interactive technologies that bring full 
integration of Virtual Worlds and Web 4.0 technologies to the next level. 
 
• The objective is to pave the way for the next generation of virtual worlds, enhancing 
immersive visualisation and interaction experience, immersing users at the centre of the 
Virtual Worlds applications, enabling seamless interaction and data exchange  
The next generation of Virtual Worlds technologies will propose a deeper and closer -to-
reality immersion, stimulating all senses to accurately capture and interpret user movements 
and environmental data, while providing realistic multi -modal tactile and kinesthetic haptic 
and force -feedback, retroactions for engaging and lifelike experiences. Real -time user 
interactions should be favoured by minimizing latency, increasing responsiveness and 
naturalness of interactions. The developed technologies will also dynamically respond to 
users’ inputs and environmental changes. 
Scope: Proposals will focus on and address the following: 
• Asset and scene creation technology evolving in parallel to enable the generation of a 
human-centric, highly detailed and realistic environments to interact with, 
• Use of Generative AI for more personalised and natural experiences, 
• Visualisation and interaction through innovative immersive technologies to enhance the 
user experience through a seamless, inclusive and immersive involvement, 
• Full integration and interoperability of XR and immersive domains and applications 
(including e.g. Digital Twins), 
• Integration of XR applications and components with Telco -Cloud-to-Edge Continuum 
components, addressing challenges related to resource availability and reliability, while 
also balancing the requirements of rapid response time, spatial computing, contextual 
awareness and smart network functions.  
The proposals should also advance on the development of technological standards, common 
data formats and protocols that would enable real-time, seamless and intuitive user-interaction 
and exchange of information between different systems and platforms in the future, as 
stepping stones towards Web 4.0. 
This topic requires the effective contribution of SSH disciplines and the involvement of SSH 
experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce 
meaningful and significant effects enhancing the societal impact of the related research 
activities. 
Proposals will include demonstrators of the developed technologies in real -world scenarios, 
illustrating the usefulness and efficiency of emerging technologies in Virtual Worlds in 
illustrative scenarios in the industrial and societal contexts, exploiting the Telco -Cloud-to-
Edge Continuum and the 3C pilots on converged Telco Edge Cloud Infrastructure. 
Proposals should demonstrate future synergies, provisions for future collaboration, and 
complementarity with other relevant actions carried out under call HORIZON -CL4-2027-04-
DATA-08: Demand -side 3C pilot demonstrators on converged Telco Edge Cloud 
Infrastructure. We consider that proposals with an overall duration of typically 36 months 
would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not 
preclude submission and selection of proposals requesting other durations. 
This topic implements the co-programmed European Partnership on Virtual Worlds.