HORIZON-CL4-2026-01-MAT-PROD-14: Improving availability of secondary raw 
materials through recycling (IA) 
Call: INDUSTRY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 7.50 
 
contribution per 
project 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 28.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined 
in the introduction to this Destination, the page limit in part B of the 
General Annexes is exceptionally extended by 3 pages. 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To increase EU resilience in raw materials supply chains and thus 
reduce the serious risk to the Union's strategic assets, economic and 
societal interests, autonomy and security associated with the current EU 
reliance on a few third countries for critical raw materials, by increasing 
sustainable and responsible sourcing of primary and secondary raw 
materials necessary to enable the green and digital transition and in 
alignment with the objectives of the Critical Raw Materials Act 76 , 
participation in this topic is limited to legal entities established in 
Member States, associated countries, OECD countries, African Union 
Member States, MERCOSUR, CARIFORUM, Andean Community and 
countries with which the EU has concluded strategic partnerships on 
raw materials 77 as well as trade agreements (or association/economic 
partnership or equivalent agreements, including the new Clean Trade 
and Investment Partnerships) containing raw materials cooperation 
provisions (i.e. Energy and Raw materials chapters) 78. The choice of 
these countries was made taking into consideration the development of 
strategic international partnerships on raw materials and avoidance of 
reinforcing existing over -dependencies, as well as the importance of 
involving partners committed to pursuing open trade in such materials. 
Proposals including legal entities which are not established in the 
countries that fall under the criteria above will be ineligible. 
 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed above, in order to 
guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of the Union and its 
Member States, entities established in an eligible country listed above, 
but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a non -eligible country 
or a non-eligible country entity, shall not participate in the action. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 5 and achieve TRL 7 by the end 
of the project – see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
• Raw materials recycling and re -use of components and/or products from end -of-life 
products technologies and urban mines, including cost -effective and efficient 
disassembly, separation, shredding and sorting technologies for separation and recycling 
and the sustainable embedment of the process regarding energy, resource and water 
efficiency;  
• Projects should analyse impacts on biodiversity of urban mines and subsequently 
propose solutions for reducing these impacts with the aim of renaturing these sites; 
• Improved responsible supply of raw materials to Europe contributing to the Critical Raw 
Materials Act (CRMA)79 objectives (Article 1).   
Scope: The focus is on raw materials (metals only), particularly on critical raw materials. 
Actions should demonstrate new or improved systems located in the EU developing material 
efficient high-quality recycling of raw materials, improved resource efficiency and reduced 
impacts on biodiversity. 
Actions should focus on the whole chain of recycling processes and procedures - from 
collection, logistics, characterisation, disassembly, separation, shredding, sorting, cleaning, 
refining, purification of secondary raw materials and quality of produced outputs, ending with 
renaturation of urban mines or waste deposits. 
Recycling and re -use where the recycled material is of lower quality and functionality than 
the original material (downcycling), is not in the scope of the topic. 
 
The recycling industry based in the EU, and users of recovered secondary raw materials 
should assume a prominent role in the proposed actions, supported by adequate allocation of 
resources.  
Actions should envisage clustering activities with other projects aiming at bioremediation 
second life, re -use, repurposing, remanufacturing of products and/or components relevant 
selected projects for cross -projects co -operation, consultations and joint activities on cross -
cutting issues and share of results as well as participating in joint meetings and 
communication events. To this end proposals should foresee a dedicated work package and/or 
task, and earmark the appropriate resources accordingly. 
Proposals submitted under this topic must include a business case and a credible exploitation 
strategy, covering all required elements as outlined in the introduction to this Destination. For 
TRLs 6-7, a credible strategy to achieve future full -scale deployment in the EU is expected, 
indicating the commitments of the industrial partners after the end of the project. 
International cooperation is encouraged with countries with which the EU has signed 
Strategic Partnerships on raw materials, especially with Ukraine.80