HORIZON-CL4-2026-04-DIGITAL-EMERGING-11: Grand Challenge on Quantum 
Sensors for Inertial Navigation 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 0.50 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a proposal 
requesting different amounts. 
Indicative The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 2.00 million. 
budget 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to achieve the expected outcomes, and safeguard the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, and security, it is important to avoid a 
situation of technological dependency on a non -EU source, in a global 
context that requires the EU to take action to build on its strengths, and to 
carefully assess and address any strategic weaknesses, vulnerabilities and 
high-risk dependencies which put at risk the attainment of its ambitions. 
For this reason, participation is limited to legal entities establ ished in 
Member States, Iceland and Norway and the following additional 
associated countries: Canada, Israel, Republic of Korea, New Zealand, 
Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. In addition, entities established in 
third countries which may become associated to Horizon Europe during 
2026 and 2027 may be eligible to participate in this topic if the third 
country is identified for this topic as an eligible country in the List of 
Participating Countries in Horizon Europe at the time of submission of the 
application125. In any case, the association agreement to the Programme 
must apply by the time of the signature of the grant agreement. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed in the paragraph above, 
in order to guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of the Union 
and its Member States, entities established in an eligible country listed 
above, but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a non -eligible 
country or by a non -eligible country entity, may not participate in the 
action unless it can be demonstrated, by means of guarantees positively 
assessed by their eligible country of establishment, that their pa rticipation 
to the action would not negatively impact the Union’s strategic assets, 
interests, autonomy, or security. Entities assessed as high -risk suppliers of 
mobile network communication equipment within the meaning of 
‘restrictions for the protection of European communication networks’ (or 
entities fully or partially owned or controlled by a high -risk supplier) 
cannot submit guarantees.126 
 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: Proposals must be 
submitted by a single legal entity (mono -beneficiary CSA) wich is an 
SME.  
Award criteria The criteria are described in General Annex D. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The following additions to the general award criteria aspects apply: 
1. Excellence: credibility of the technical approach for road -mapping 
and benchmarking; adequacy of performance metrics and 
methodology (e.g. drift rate, SWaP-C, environmental resilience) and 
early end-user engagement to define requirements. 
2. Impact: enhancing the EU stance around quantum inertial navigation 
from different angles 127; expected contribution to EU technological 
sovereignty (including mitigation of non -EU supply -chain 
dependencies) and to societal, industrial and economic benefits; 
credibility of the path to commercialisation and investor-readiness. 
3. Quality and efficiency of the implementation: credibility of the work 
plan, resources and risk management for a mono -beneficiary CSA; 
capacity to deliver the specified outputs (technical & financial 
roadmap, validation/benchmarking reports, viability assessment); 
appropriateness of the team and access to facilities for 
validation/benchmarking of existing prototypes. 
 
Expected Outcome : Expected Outcome : This topic is the first phase of a two -phase 
competitive structure supported by Horizon Europe, implemented via a Coordination and 
Support Action (CSA) in close collaboration with the European Investment Bank (EIB). 
• Phase 1 (this topic): A CSA focused on readiness -analysis in terms of exploitation and 
investments, benchmarking the commercial viability of quantum enabled navigation 
systems. The aim is to deliver concrete outputs that improve the conditions for use of the 
supported projects through credible technical, industrialisation and financial roadmaps, 
validated against investor requirements (e.g. EIB, InvestEU). Activities also include 
analyses of investor-readiness and supply-chain sovereignty. 
• Phase 2: For further information, see the indirectly managed action “HORIZON -CL4 
Quantum Top-Up to InvestEU: Grand Challenge Phase 2” in the Cluster 4 part of the 
Horizon Europe 2026/2027 Work Programme. This CSA is designed to allow the best 
possible application in Phase 2 and the current CSA results may therefore inform 
 
clearance issued by an eligible country, where appropriate; c) ownership of the intellectual property 
arising from, and the results of, the action remain within the recipient during and after completion of the 
action, are not subject to control or restrictions by non -eligible countries or non -eligible country entity, 
and are not exported outside the eligible countries, nor is access to them from outside the eligible 
countries granted, without the approval of the eligible country in which the legal entity is established.  
applications by beneficiaries to investment support managed by the EIB under InvestEU 
(separate procedures).  
Under Phase 1 projects are expected to establish a comprehensive technical and financial 
roadmap that demonstrates the potential of the proposed Q -INS solutions, and at least deliver 
evidence-based design and benchmarking packages for reduced -scale systems ( such as 
documentation, test/benchmark reports and evidence of pre -existing or externally financed 
prototypes) in one of the following two categories: 
• Category 1  (cold-atoms Q -INS): Q -INS based on cold -atom interferometry (or other 
technology of at least equivalent performance) featuring long -term navigation accuracy 
(<10 m/hour) due to reduced drift with respect to commercial Inertial Measurement 
Units (IMUs). End -user requirements together with documented benchmark evidence 
from existing or externally financed prototypes will be collected for demonstrations in 
maritime or aviation applications. 
• Category 2 (Chip-scale Q-INS): Low C-SWAP Q-INS measuring acceleration, rotation 
rate, and/or magnetic field, aimed at the implementation of chip -scale sensors based on 
defect centers and vacancies in crystals or on warm atomic vapours (including nuclear 
magnetic resonance), for applications e.g. in small satellites, UAVs, and autonomous 
transport.  
Proposals should target systems that are already sufficiently mature to enable credible 
benchmarking and industrial road-mapping. Specific expected outcomes include: 
• A detailed technical roadmap, including system architecture, integration strategy, 
performance milestones, risk assessments and industrialisation plan for scalable 
production 
• The industrialisation plan should be validated in conjunction with the EIB requirements, 
including commercialization timelines, and should include at least the following:        
 Detailed Q-INS architecture based on quantum sensing techniques hybridised with 
classical IMUs,    
 Compliance assessment for SWaP -C requirements, environmental resilience, and 
real-world integration,    
 An assessment of dependencies on non -EU suppliers of critical components and 
proposal of effective mitigation measures in view of a sovereign supply chain,    
 Potential list of end-users to capture system requirements and use-case constraints   
• A comprehensive financial roadmap and viability assessment covering business models, 
market analyses, commercialization pathways, revenue projections and investment 
criteria
• Documented lab-validation/benchmarking of an existing or externally financed prototype 
(no EU funding of R&I or prototype development in this CSA), with preliminary 
benchmark results. 
• An application strategy identifying target sectors (maritime, aviation, space, autonomous 
systems) and quantifiable advantages over classical IMUs.  
Scope: The Grand Challenge on Quantum Sensors for Inertial Navigation aims to advance the 
development of quantum -enabled navigation systems for use in GNSS -denied or contested 
environments. Q -INS combines quantum sensors with classical inertial measurement 
subsystems to deliver reliable, resilient, and sovereign positioning capabilities. The topic 
supports the EU’s ambition to strengthen technological sovereignty in strategic navigation 
infrastructures, aligned with the objectives of the STEP and the Digital Decade. 
Under this topic (Phase 1), projects are expected to deliver a comprehensive technical, 
industrialisation, and financial roadmap, including criteria for investment readiness, 
bankability, risk assessment, and scalability, thereby laying the groundwork for future 
investments via EU financial instruments under InvestEU, which benefits from a dedicated 
top-up from Horizon Europe for this purpose128. 
Under Phase 1, Expressions of Interest from potential end -user partners are strongly 
encouraged. Tailored advisory services from EIB Advisory may support financial structuring 
to prepare for Phase 2. 
Projects funded under this action are expected to span approximately six months, with an EU 
contribution up to EUR 0.5 million.