HORIZON-CL4-2027-01-MAT-PROD-62: Fast Track to Innovation for breakthroughs 
in the Chemical Industry Action Plan  (Research and Innovation Action) 
Call: INDUSTRY-FTRI 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
Up to EUR 2.50 million. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 15.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility conditions The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: consortia may 
include a maximum of 6 independent eligible entities as 
participants. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Indicative timetable for evaluation and grant agreement signature 
will be: 
• Information on the outcome of the evaluation: Maximum 4 
months from the final date for submission; and 
• Indicative date for the signing of grant agreements: Maximum 
6 months from the final date for submission. 
To allow a faster access to funds for small collaborative consortia, 
grants under this topic will be funded under a Fast Track to 
Research and Innovation Procedure (FTRI). 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
• Proposals should describe a credible pathway from their project results and outcomes 
towards the expected impact of this Destination; 
• Enable the acceleration of the market uptake of groundbreaking innovations in the 
decarbonisation of the chemical industries as well as alternatives to substances of 
concern.  
Scope: This open topic aims to speed up the adoption of new, groundbreaking innovations 
(starting TRL 4 ) as part of the Chemical Industry Action Plan, in the areas of decarbonisation 
of energy intensive industries, circular economy or breakthrough production technologies; as 
well as development of alternatives (new chemical substances, advanced materials or 
technologies) to substances of concern. Application of the SSbD Framework should be 
considered as appropriate.