HORIZON-CL4-2026-01-MAT-PROD-24: Cooperation on innovative advanced 
materials with Japan (CSA) 
Call: INDUSTRY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 0.80 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 0.80 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 33. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
• Cooperation with Japan in the field of innovative advanced materials is strengthened.   
Scope: Advanced materials are an important factor for the competitiveness of Japanese and 
European industries and are a crucial building block for strengthening resilience and open 
strategic autonomy, including through international collaboration. Against this background, 
the European Commission and the Japanese Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation 
Policy, have in April 2024 announced the launch of the EU -Japan Enhanced Dialogue 34 on 
Advanced Materials. This builds on the success of EU -Japan collaboration in R&I in material 
sciences. It aims to create a platform for sharing information on policy developments and 
exploring the opportunities to pursue collaborative research in the areas of mutual interest. 
As part of the EU -Japan Enhanced Dialogue on Advanced Materials and taking into account 
the Communication on Advanced Materials for Industrial Leadership 35, the purpose of this 
action is to enable European researchers in innovative advanced materials from Member 
States and Associated Countries to make research visits to related Japanese institutions. 
Proposals should aim to provide travel grants strengthening collaboration in relevant ongoing 
research activities in Europe on the topic of advanced materials with applications to either 
mobility, energy, construction, electronics or medical devices. Proposals should ensure a wide 
geographical coverage of the grants in Member States and Associated Countries. They should 
aim at visits to research groups at Japanese organisations with complementary activities for up 
to one month duration. Such travel grants should build on collaborations with Japanese 
organisations that are willing to receive such a visits. Proposals can either support the 
initiation of new collaborations, or existing collaborations.