HORIZON-CL4-2026-05-MAT-PROD-25: New or enhanced Innovative Advanced 
Materials (IAM) enabled sensing functionality (RIA) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 7.50 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 22.50 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 3 and achieve TRL 5 -6 by the 
end of the project – see General Annex B. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced portfolio covering the two areas described below, 
grants will be awarded to applications not only in order of ranking but at 
least also to one proposal that is the highest ranked within each area, 
provided that the applications attain all thresholds. For the purposes of 
the ranking the main area declared by the proposal will be considered. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 89. 
 
 
Expected Outcome:  
• New technological solutions with improved performance and reduced energy and 
environmental impact consumption providing significant advances towards the 
emergence of competitive value chains in IAM-based sensing components in Europe. 
• Widespread adoption of low -cost IAM -based sensing solutions in e.g. environmental 
monitoring, industrial safety, and next -generation smart sensing applications including 
health monitoring.  
Scope: Proposals should address at least one of the following two areas. 
A. IAM -enabled multifunctional surfaces able to detect and respond to changes in the 
environment, such as temperature, pH, moisture, microbiological or chemical pollutants, 
concentration of chemical species in air, gases and liquids, and converting these signals into 
measurable outputs. Such surfaces should demonstrate high performance in terms of 
sensitivity, selectivity, response time, durability and cost -effectiveness. Proposals should 
target applications such as environmental and ecosystems monitoring, as well as health 
monitoring. 
B. The development of enhanced IAM -based sensor demonstrators, that enable 
miniaturization and integration into application systems e.g. into portable IoT devices, 
lightweight wearables and wearable systems. These sensors must meet key performance 
requirements, e.g. compatibility with silicon technology, operation in real conditions with low 
power consumption, high sensitivity (low limit of detection and/or high signal to noise ratio), 
high selectivity and fast detection speed. 
Stability and resistance to extreme conditions such temperature and humidity should be taken 
into account. Solutions could also take inspiration from bio-mimicry. 
Proposals may contribute to one or both above R&I areas. However the main area addressed 
must be clearly and unambiguously identified in the proposed project. 
Proposals should integrate the value chain and incorporate the relevant manufacturing 
technologies needed to bring the developed devices towards the market. 
Technology must be demonstrated in an industrially relevant environment. 
Proposals should include activities aiming at facilitating future exploitation of results. 
Consideration of circularity and recyclability, and compliance with the safe and sustainable by 
design framework should boost the confidence of industry and end -users and enhance the 
Innovative Advanced Materials ecosystem and uptake. 
 
Where relevant, cooperation with activities funded under the Chips Joint Undertaking, the 
photonics partnership or other initiatives are encouraged. 
Beneficiaries that intend to transfer ownership or grant an exclusive licence must formally 
notify the granting authority (i.e. DG -CNECT and HaDEA) before the intended transfer or 
licensing takes place and the granting authority may up to four years after the end of the 
action object to a transfer of ownership or the exclusive licensing of results. 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership Innovative Advanced 
Materials for the EU (IAM4EU). 
