HORIZON-CL4-2026-01-MAT-PROD-46: Mapping and service finder for Technology 
Infrastructures (CSA) 
Call: INDUSTRY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 2.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 2.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 55. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
• Improved visibility and access to technology infrastructures via an interactive portal 
(open source, free to access, easy to update) of technology infrastructures across Europe; 
 
• Improved understanding of the European landscape of technology infrastructures, 
including existing facilities and their services supporting the development of strategic 
technologies by industrial users; 
• Boosted innovation and market potential by providing an interactive portal where 
industrial users, especially SMEs, startups and scaleups, can search and find services 
relevant for their innovation and product development.  
Scope: For many innovative startups, finding and accessing highly specific research and 
technology infrastructures services is a major hurdle. Information about the available services 
is limited, especially on infrastructures located beyond their local ecosystems. 
Proposals are expected to create an inventory of existing and ongoing mapping of technology 
infrastructure and technology infrastructure services in Europe and to consolidate the 
knowledge into an interactive portal that will serve as technology infrastructure service finder. 
Furthermore, based on this inventory and other existing evidence -gathering and policy 
analysis, the proposals should use a comprehensive taxonomy of the technology 
infrastructures landscape. The portal, in line with regional smart specializations and existing 
ecosystems, should help assess which new technology infrastructure needs to be built to 
ensure long-term Europe’s competitiveness and sovereignty.  
Proposals should set out to establish an interactive portal including an interactive finder for 
technology infrastructure services in the EU. The finder should be aligned with other ongoing 
activities such as EIB TechEU, EIB Advisory services and other relevant tools identified 
during the inventory stage. The interactive finder should facilitate the cooperation between 
technology infrastructure operators with industry (including SMEs, startups and scaleups) and 
other relevant stakeholders and propose services from a demand driven perspective. It should 
lead to increased opportunities for startups and scaleups for development, testing, up -scaling 
and deployment of new technologies. 
The developed platform should be based on open -sources technologies, allowing 
interoperability with parallel initiatives and self -sustainability on long -term, and propose a 
suitable opensource application interface (API) or develop an open -source API that will allow 
flow of information between technology infrastructure service providers. The CSA could 
support the maintenance of the platform for at least 5 years. 
Proposals should include also communication actions aimed at increasing the visibility and 
uptake of the finder and of technology infrastructures across the EU as well as activities to 
facilitate dialogue and networking among stakeholders. This should include promoting the 
uptake of the platform.  
Furthermore, the proposal should develop a model to make the platform self -sustainable on 
the long -term, through, but not only limited to, proper governance, financing and other 
relevant aspects. 
Proposals should also aim at enhancing transnational and multisite collaboration among 
Technology Infrastructures and their users, fostering the building of technology 
infrastructures ecosystems, the sharing of experience, resources, best practices service 
development and service offer, feedback from users, staff exchange and networking. 
Proposals may also benefit, especially for communication and dissemination activities, from 
sharing best practices and taking stock of what other relevant projects are developing in the 
field of Technology Infrastructures.