HORIZON-CL4-2026-04-DATA-03: Open Internet Stack Support for Scale (CSA) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 4.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 4.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 92. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects results are expected to contribute to all the following outcomes: 
• A common approach and hub for cataloguing, packaging, reviewing and validating Open 
Internet Stack components and projects. 
• Long term viability by advising on Open Source sustainability and maintenance models 
including business and foundation; Promotion of the EU and Associated Countries as 
ideal location for Open Source Foundation sieges. 
 
• A common branding, marketing, training and communication plan ensuring consistent 
perception and scale-up.  
A close interleave with policy development through a dedicated policy sandbox. 
Scope: Applicants should devise a plan for: 
• Cataloguing solutions in a structured and easy to discover way 
• Performing security and accessibility audits on the selected solutions under the Open 
Internet Stack. 
• Screening and selecting European funded Open Source projects, including by exploring 
the relevant Horizon Europe programmes, and devising a strategy for the Open Internet 
Stack to become a central hub for those solutions. 
• Establishing links and mutual support with national, multi -country and pan -European 
initiatives supporting Open Source sovereign solutions. 
• Advising on sustainability models (both for and non -for profit), on standardisation, 
licencing schemes, or localisation/internationalisation 
• Elaborating a common branding with associated marketing and communication tool 
• Developing training material on these solutions that stresses their value in terms of EU 
legislation compliance (GDRP, DSA/DMA, CRA…), security (e.g. reference to security 
audits, list of dependencies), use cases, funding/business model, deployment 
requirements (server side, user side), link to repository and community resource 
(maintainers, community manager, discussion board…). Training material will be 
tailored to each target audience: Operators of infrastructure, Integrators, Government & 
verticals IT, end users. 
• Implementing measures to identify/attract technology adopters (e.g. services providers, 
integrators, OSPOs in governments/verticals) to become promoters of these 
technologies. 
• Developing sandbox tools for ensuring smooth compliance -by-design of the Open 
Internet Stack with relevant existing or futures EU policies. 
• Supporting Open Source awards scheme and sustainability models after the action is 
finished.  
We consider that proposals with an overall duration of typically 36 months would allow these 
outcomes to be addressed appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of proposals requesting other durations. 
Beneficiaries that intend to transfer ownership or grant an exclusive licence must formally 
notify the granting authority (i.e. DG -CNECT and HaDEA) before the intended transfer or 
licensing takes place and the granting authority may up to four years after the end of the 
action object to a transfer of ownership or the exclusive licensing of results.