HORIZON-CL4-2026-02-DIGITAL-EMERGING-53-two-stage: Innovative AI methods 
and technologies for the process industries (RIA) (Processes4Planet and AI, Data and 
Robotics partnerships) 
Call: INDUSTRY-two-stage 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
4.00 and 6.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 30.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
conditions exceptions apply: 
Applicants submitting a proposal for a blind evaluation (see General 
Annex F) must not disclose their organisation names, acronyms, logos 
nor names of personnel in the proposal abstract and Part B of their first-
stage application (see General Annex E). 
In order to include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined 
in the introduction to Destination 'Leadership in materials and 
production for Europe', the page limit in part B of the General Annexes 
is exceptionally extended by 3 pages (for second-stage proposals). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 4 -5 and achieve TRL 6 by the 
end of the project – see General Annex B. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The first-stage proposals of this topic will be evaluated blindly. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 137. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects are expected to contribute to the following outcomes: 
• To develop and demonstrate innovative AI -driven solutions in materials and process 
development to enhance the competitiveness and sustainability of the process industries 
by better products and process technologies and reducing the time to market 
• To increase the competitiveness of materials production in Europe by AI -supported 
optimal operation of plants and value networks and early detection of problems and 
failures 
• To improve the working conditions in the plants by using AI technologies, metaverse, 
and robots.  
 
Scope: Drastically improved AI methods and technologies hold transformative potential for 
the process industries, enabling advancements in process design, operational efficiency, and 
faster innovation across the entire lifecycle of plants and products. By using different AI 
approaches such as multimodal generative AI, foundation models, and agentic AI, the 
industry can move beyond conventional AI applications as e.g. predictive maintenance and 
quality control toward more intelligent, adaptive, and creative solutions. 
AI-based solutions can deliver value at every stage of the process lifecycle. In design and 
engineering, they can enable new innovations and accelerate the development process. During 
operations, AI technologies can be employed to optimize processes, enhance reproducibility, 
adapt to changing conditions, and provide new forms of support for the workforce and enable 
autonomous operation. In value chains, AI can help to adapt faster and detect changing 
customer needs. These capabilities support faster innovation and strengthen competitiveness 
in a rapidly evolving industrial landscape. However, realizing this potential requires careful 
consideration of risks related to reliability, security, and trust, ensuring that AI solutions are 
effective, safe, and responsible. 
Proposals should produce dedicated innovative AI-based solutions for the process industry for 
one of the following scopes: 
• More effective and faster development of new materials and processes 
• Competitive and sustainable production, reducing the negative environmental impact of 
industry 
• Reduction of risks for the health of the workforce and for the environment and making 
workplaces in the process industries more attractive.  
In the projects, user acceptance and training of the users as well as integration into the OT/IT 
landscape of the companies should be taken into account, e.g. through active engagement in 
design, development and integration of systems and processes. 
This topic is linked to the Apply AI Strategy, therefore proposals should seek collaboration 
with relevant initiatives. 
Proposals should include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined in the 
introduction to Destination ‘Leadership in materials and production for Europe’. 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnerships Processes4Planet and AI, 
Data and Robotics. 
