HORIZON-CL4-2026-02-DIGITAL-EMERGING-51-two-stage: AI improved advanced 
manufacturing and production processes in factories (RIA) (Made in Europe and AI, 
Data and Robotics partnerships) 
Call: INDUSTRY-two-stage 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
4.00 and 6.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 30.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Applicants submitting a proposal for a blind evaluation (see General 
Annex F) must not disclose their organisation names, acronyms, logos 
nor names of personnel in the proposal abstract and Part B of their first-
stage application (see General Annex E). 
In order to include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined 
in the introduction to Destination 'Leadership in materials and 
production for Europe', the page limit in part B of the General Annexes 
is exceptionally extended by 3 pages (for second-stage proposals). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 4 -5 and achieve TRL 6 by the 
end of the project – see General Annex B. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced portfolio covering also textiles, grants will be 
awarded to applications not only in order of ranking but at least also to 
one proposal that is the highest ranked with focus on complex 
functional and technical textiles, provided that the applications attain 
all thresholds. 
The first-stage proposals of this topic will be evaluated blindly. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 135. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
• Increased competitiveness and productivity, through innovative AI -enabled advanced 
manufacturing processes and operations, including real -time monitoring and adaptive 
optimisation; and 
• Reduction of emissions and alignment with Clean Industrial Deal objectives.  
Scope: AI approaches in manufacturing processes hold the potential to significantly enhance 
circularity, process and operational efficiency as well as sustainability of modern factories. 
 
Current state -of-the-art technologies have already paved the way for more streamlined 
operations, yet there remains untapped value in e.g. quality improvement, definition of 
optimal process operating conditions, reduction of scrap, optimization of energy usage. Real -
time monitoring and adaptive optimisation using AI models can enable agile responses to 
production variability and support sustained, high-performance operations. 
New solutions based on innovative enabling technologies such as deep learning, large 
language models, digital twins, synthetic data, and data-driven models allow manufacturers to 
improve production system efficiency, elevate product quality, and proactively address 
critical challenges in energy consumption and carbon footprint. This dual focus on operational 
excellence and sustainability ensures that factories can maintain competitive advantage while 
also contributing to specific environmental goals, e.g. reducing the pressure on ecosystems 
and natural resources. Since innovation capacity and competitiveness also requires a systemic 
understanding of an organization’s value creating structure, novel AI solutions should be 
implemented such that they can support all structures and phases of operation, in technical 
and non-technical terms. 
Proposals should produce dedicated innovative explainable AI based solutions in advanced 
manufacturing for at least two of the following: 
• improve processes and operational efficiency, and reduce climate and environmental 
impact of processes and factories through dynamic selection of optimal processes and 
production parameters, exploiting AI for process modelling and/or optimisation; 
• avoid the production of defective parts using AI to detect process drift and anomalies 
and correct proactively defects in real time; and 
• maximise the fraction of regenerated components or materials used in the production 
using AI to optimise the material flow.  
Proposals should demonstrate potential for these AI tools to adapt to changing production 
needs and real-time data, and should describe how industrial data access, confidentiality, and 
secure data-sharing will be addressed. 
Projects are encouraged to link with AI Factories, including the Data Labs. The results may be 
validated in Testing and Experiment Facilities (TEFs), and further deployed via European 
Digital Innovation Hubs (EDIHs). This topic is linked to the Apply AI Strategy, therefore 
proposals should seek collaboration with relevant initiatives. 
Proposals can optionally address the conditions for implementing the novel AI solutions 
within an organisations structure and value creating models, thereby contributing to systemic 
approach of implementing a smart organisation. 
This topic is linked to the Apply AI Strategy, therefore proposals should seek collaboration 
with relevant initiatives. 
Proposals should include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined in the 
introduction to Destination ‘Leadership in materials and production for Europe’. 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnerships Made in Europe and AI, 
Data and Robotics.