HORIZON-CL4-2027-04-DATA-08: Demand-side 3C pilot demonstrators on converged 
Telco Edge Cloud Infrastructure (IA) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 19.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a proposal 
requesting different amounts. 
Indicative 
budget 
The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 38.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
conditions exceptions apply: 
In order to achieve the expected outcomes, and safeguard the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, and security, it is important to avoid 
a situation of technological dependency on a non -EU source, in a global 
context that requires the EU to take action to build on its strengths, and to 
carefully assess and address any strategic weaknesses, vulnerabilities and 
high-risk dependencies which put at risk the attainment of its ambitions. 
For this reason, participation is limited to legal entities establ ished in 
Member States, Iceland and Norway and the following additional 
associated countries: Canada, Israel, Republic of Korea, New Zealand, 
Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. In addition, entities established in 
third countries which may become associated to Horizon Europe during 
2026 and 2027 may be eligible to participate in this topic if the third 
country is identified for this topic as an eligible country in the List of 
Participating Countries in Horizon Europe at the time of submission of the 
application90. In any case, the association agreement to the Programme 
must apply by the time of the signature of the grant agreement. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed in the paragraph 
above, in order to guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of the 
Union and its Member States, entities established in an eligible country 
listed above, but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a non -
eligible country or by a non -eligible country entity, may not participate in 
the action unless it can be demonstrated, by means of guarantees 
positively assessed by their eligible country of establishment, that their 
participation to the action would not negatively impact the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security. Entities assessed as high -
risk suppliers of mobile network communication equipment within the 
meaning of ‘restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks’ (or entities fully or partially owned or controlled by a high -risk 
supplier) cannot submit guarantees.91 
 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 -8 by the end of the project – see 
General Annex B. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
• Demand-side driven validation of open orchestration platforms across the telco -cloud 
edge continuum unlocking notably the transformative value of AI for European 
businesses, driving business growth in multiple industries strategic for Europe. 
• Enabling the path towards sustainability and competitiveness of key vertical sectors in 
the EU, exploiting the innovative features of 3C/ telco -edge-cloud, including network 
features such as API (Application Program Interface) aggregation, slicing, automation, 
latency, security, ISAC (Integrated Sensing and Communication), reconfigurability, to 
significantly improve quality of service, resilience, sustainability and other performance 
parameters of digital communications. 
• The demand pilots will have a clear sector relevance, with one pilot addressing the future 
of smart mobility including the automotive sector. 
• A vibrant ecosystem around 3C/telco -edge-cloud infrastructure, targeting SMEs and 
start-ups to develop innovative services and new business models validation and 
marketplace exploitation strategies, as well as paths to commercialization or 
replicability.  
Scope: The term “Connected, Collaborative, Computing (3C) Network” refers to a telco-edge-
cloud, secure multi-provider and multi-technology, communication system that hosts network 
functions and workloads for and beyond connectivity (e.g. 6G, AI Storage/Compute, 
networking, Security ISAC , and any other application or capability) as a service (aaS). Key 
features of the 3C/ telco -edge-cloud network include programmability, fast service creation, 
security and privacy, mobility, and service continuity across inter -domain deployments. 3C/ 
telco-edge-cloud networks enable innovative use cases for an EU Digital Market that integrate 
communication, collaboration and computing capabilities in competitive and sustainable 
business models that will reinforce EU competitiveness and contribute to digital sovereignty, 
in particular through the use of Open Internet Stack components. Resulting solutions should 
be available for use in the public sector (for instance for justice systems). 
The 3C Network large -scale pilot funded under topic HORIZON -CL4-2025-03-DATA-08: 
Large-scale pilots for supply end -to-end infrastructures integrating device, network 
computing and communication capabilities for Telco Edge Cloud deployments, as a basis for 
Connected Collaborative Computing Networks (3C networks) (RIA)  is setting up end -to-end 
integrated infrastructures and platforms, bringing together players from different segments of 
the connectivity and compute value chain and beyond. The main target is to research and 
validate the integration of device, network, cloud and edge computing, and communication 
capabilities for telco edge cloud deployments to realize a ubiquitous mesh of computing and 
communication resources. As a main outcome the supply side pilot establishes an open 
orchestration platform across the telco -cloud-edge continuum, exploits the transformative 
value of AI and builds on the integration of solutions developed by the Open Euro Stack. 
Demand- side pilot demonstrators called in this topic will build on the above supply side 
large-scale pilot and integrate future domain -specific applications and services with an 
emerging European 3Cs/ telco -edge-cloud infrastructure, leveraging different network 
features. Key features will include security and privacy solutions offering resistance to 
emerging quantum threats (such as via post -quantum cryptography), mobility, and service 
continuity across inter-domain and multi-cloud deployments and ecosystems. 
Up to two pilot demonstrators on below listed specific verticals are expected. 
• One pilot demonstrator focusing on Mobility covering specific areas of transport, 
logistics and the Automotive industry. The pilot should support the strategy as developed 
by the Connected and Autonomous Vehicle Alliance identified in the Automotive Action 
plan, in particular Pillars 3 (AI models) and 5 (Large -scale testing), which will be 
launched in 2025. 
• One pilot demonstrator focusing on another vertical sector such as energy, smart 
communities, industrial virtual worlds, health, agrifood or manufacturing.  
They would be driven by a consortium including partners both from the demand (user) and 
infrastructure supply side. The pilot demonstrators should take advantage of open application 
interfaces, explore the possibilities of AI, “virtual worlds”, and other innovative technologies 
for practical implementation in the referred vertical domains. They should leverage combined 
investments in network infrastructure, computing and connectivity infrastructure as an enabler 
for more extensive set of digital innovation, with cognitive cloud computing and swarm 
intelligence, generative AI and LLM, as well as on -boarding of XR/AR technologies, being 
ranked most important. 
Proposals are expected to detail a robust data governance model for the data generated and 
processed within the pilots. This model should address data sovereignty, interoperability with 
Common European Data Spaces, and alignment with principles from initiatives like Gaia -X. 
It should outline clear mechanisms for secure and compliant data sharing between the 
demand-side (users) and supply -side (infrastructure providers), establishing the trust 
necessary for a functional data economy on top of the 3C infrastructure. 
Pilot demonstrators should demonstrate the evolution from virtualised and cloud -native 
network functions towards automated network operations enabling agile and green IoT -edge 
computing solutions and decentralised intelligence. They should also demonstrate benefits for 
infrastructure providers to operate networks more efficiently and move beyond traditional 
connectivity-service models to higher value-added services. 
Demonstrations will respond to the ever more demanding processing power of AI through 
integration on-device level and changes triggered by GenAI affecting global communication 
infrastructures. Orchestration of workloads across the telco -cloud-edge continuum from 
distributed sensors and actuators to the edge and cloud is a crucial part of innovation as AI 
becomes more resource-intensive. 
The pilot demonstrators should take into consideration the recommendations on user 
requirements from the advisory group of end users, as well as liaise with the collaboration and 
support action (CSA) funded under WP25 to bridge between the 3C/ telco -edge-cloud supply 
pilot funded under WP25 and the demand pilots funded under WP26-27. 
The pilots should exploit in particular open APIs and open -source components as developed 
by the supply side pilot, e.g. including the use of capabilities to implement specific 
communication management services (e.g. Open RAN security, RIC VNF…), up -take of 
existing standards and relevant open -source projects (e.g., Sylva, ANUKET, Nephio, 
CAMARA, etc.). 
The pilot demonstrators should include testing, validation and demonstration of prototypes of 
agile virtualised network functions combined with ubiquitous mesh of integrated devices, 
computing and communication resources in operational environments, ensuring security and 
privacy, protection also in the face of emerging quantum threats, energy efficiency, 
transparency and control of the ecological footprint, as well as sustainable artificial 
intelligence services. 
The pilot demonstrators are expected to re -use as far as possible existing open -source 
frameworks, i.e. open -source software governed by communities of contributors, that will 
provide key technology components for the operation of the 3C/ telco -edge-cloud supply-side 
large scale pilot. These open -source frameworks should be made available to the Open 
Internet Stack Support for Scale. 
The proposals should ensure a high degree of participation of stakeholders from the relevant 
vertical sectors, with a particular attention to the involvement of SMEs, scale -ups and start -
ups. 
The pilots should establish a high degree of relations and collaborate with complementary EU 
funded research activities, like the Smart Networks and Systems Joint Undertaking (SNS JU) 
projects, the “Empowering AI across the continuum” and the “Sovereign edge/cloud 
infrastructure” R&I areas, the PPP virtual worlds, CCAM partnership as well as support of 
SW-defined vehicle initiative under the Chips JU.