HORIZON-CL4-2027-04-DIGITAL-EMERGING-04: Apply AI: Challenge -Driven AI 
Innovation Booster in Apply AI prioritised sectors (RIA) (Partnership in AI, Data and 
Robotics) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
14.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 42.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to achieve the expected outcomes, and safeguard the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, and security, it is important to 
avoid a situation of technological dependency on a non -EU source, in a 
global context that requires the EU to take action to build on its 
strengths, and to carefully assess and address any strategic weaknesses, 
vulnerabilities and high -risk dependencies which put at risk the 
attainment of its ambitions. For this reason, participation is limited to 
legal entities established in Member States, Iceland and Norway and the 
following additional associated countries: Canada, Israel, Republic of 
Korea, New Zealand, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. In addition, 
entities established in third countries which may become associated to 
Horizon Europe during 2026 and 2027 may be eligible to participate in 
this topic if the third country is identified for this topic as an eligible 
country in the List of Participating Countries in Horizon Europe at the 
time of submission of the appli cation103. In any case, the association 
agreement to the Programme must apply by the time of the signature of 
the grant agreement. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed in the paragraph 
above, in order to guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of 
the Union and its Member States, entities established in an eligible 
country listed above, but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a 
non-eligible country or by a non -eligible country entity, may not 
participate in the action unless it can be demonstrated, by means of 
guarantees positively assessed by their eligible country of establishment, 
that their pa rticipation to the action would not negatively impact the 
Union’s strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security. Entities 
assessed as high -risk suppliers of mobile network communication 
equipment within the meaning of ‘restrictions for the protection of 
European communication networks’ (or entities fully or partially owned 
or controlled by a high-risk supplier) cannot submit guarantees.104 
 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 2 and achieve TRL 5 by the end 
of the project – see General Annex B. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a portfolio coverage, grants will be awarded to applications 
not only in order of ranking, but also to at least one proposal focusing on 
each of the three sectors (one in healthcare, one in advanced 
manufacturing and one in -vehicle autonomous driving), subject to 
proposals passing all evaluation thresholds. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Beneficiaries must provide financial support to third parties. The support 
to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. 
FSTP grants may be provided to either a single SME or to a small team 
of legal entities. Where provided to a small team, the coordinator (lead 
applicant) must be an SME and other recipients of financial support 
must be either an SME, a research organisation, and/or public body 
secondary or higher education establishment. 
FSTP amounts: 
• The maximum amount to be granted per FSTP grant (whether 
provided to one legal entity or a team of legal entities) is EUR 
300,000 in stage 2 and EUR 2,250,000 in stage 3. 
• The amount of EUR 300,000 in stage 2 is justified as the 
challenge and corresponding tasks defined for this stage must be 
complex enough in order to take the best and most informed 
decision in the selection for the next stage based on a convincing 
technical prototype/proof of concept that reaches sufficient level 
of performance in terms of scale and maturity. 
• The amount of EUR 2,250,000 in stage 3 is justified by the 
ambition of reaching significant technology progress and 
innovation, defined in the expected outcome of the call, including 
the need for the selected projects to scale their solutions to the 
maturity expected. 
The maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 
2,550,000. 
 
and are not exported outside the eligible countries, nor is access to them from outside the eligible 
countries granted, without the approval of the eligible country in which the legal entity is established.  
In accordance with Annex 5 of the grant agreement “SPECIFIC RULES 
FOR CARRYING OUT THE ACTION ( — ARTICLE 18) 
Implementation in case of restrictions due to strategic assets, interests, 
autonomy or security of the EU and its Member States ”, by default 
beneficiaries must ensure that, inter alia , no recipient of FSTP is (i) 
established in a country which is not an eligible country (as identified in 
the specific conditions for eligibility) or (ii) controlled by such countries 
or entities from such countries (dir ectly or indirectly as per the specific 
conditions for eligibility). In line with the possibility for the granting 
authority to agree otherwise, as concerns control of SMEs or private 
research organisations that participate as recipients of FSTP, 
beneficiaries must only ensure that such entities are not directly 
majority-owned (i.e., more than 50% of the capital) by entities 
established in non-eligible countries. 
 
Expected Outcome: The Apply AI Strategy 105 proposes a comprehensive set of measures to 
notably harness the transformative potential of AI. It lays down targeted measures to boost AI 
use in key strategic sectors of the EU economy including healthcare, mobility and 
manufacturing for example. With challenges designed to spark breakthroughs in such 
strategic sectors, the current topic will directly support key activities of the Apply AI 
Strategy. 
Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Significant technological progress and innovation in Apply AI Strategy's prioritised 
sectors driven by challenge-oriented, AI-powered solutions. 
• Increase competitiveness and visibility of the relevant AI community within key 
application domains, and promote collaborative approaches for AI development in these 
domains, fostering the ecosystem. 
• Increase adoption of AI technologies across the following three key application domains: 
healthcare, advanced manufacturing (including AI -powered robotics) and in -vehicle 
autonomous driving.  
Scope: The Challenge-Driven AI Innovation Booster aims to drive significant technological 
progress and innovation in Apply AI prioritised sectors through challenge -oriented, AI -
powered solutions. This initiative seeks to boost Europe's developer community and the 
adoption of powerful, trustworthy AI solutions in three strategic domains such as: 
• In healthcare - advanced AI will accelerate diagnostics and treatment plans, enhance 
robotic surgery, or improve patient care through predictive analytics. 
 
• In advanced manufacturing - advanced AI will optimize production processes, improve 
quality control and product design, or enable predictive maintenance. 
• In autonomous driving - advanced AI will enhance vehicle safety, improve navigation 
systems, or optimize traffic management. Provided sufficient quality of the proposals 
received, at least one selected project will focus on in -vehicle autonomous driving 
applications, in line with the Automotive Action Plan, ensuring coordination with the 
announced Connected and Autonomous Vehicle Alliance.  
Each proposal should focus exclusively on one of the three key sectors mentioned above. 
It is expected to focus primarily on the definition and organization of a multi -stage 
competition in the chosen sector, as well as on the accompanying support to the SMEs/teams 
taking part in each of the challenges. 
User-industry companies from the strategic sector targeted by the proposal should be core 
partners in each consortium. They should demonstrate a genuine interest in the project results 
and therefore support the challenge participants to reach the most powerful and exploitable 
results benefiting their industry. The expected results are pre -competitive, but the proposal 
must include a draft exploitation plan focused on how the solutions developed by the third 
parties will be taken up, with support from the user -industry partners for their future 
exploitation. 
The consortium leading the project is responsible for the various stages of the challenges. This 
consortium should provide the necessary support resources during each stage of the 
competition (including technical assistance and business support to develop an exploitation 
strategy) and, most importantly, the consortium should ensure that the teams competing for 
and receiving financial support to third parties have access to relevant data to fine -tune 
models and build high-impact solutions meeting industry needs. 
Proposals should be driven by impactful use -cases where advanced AI can make the 
difference: a number of industries from the targeted sector are expected to join forces to 
define challenging problems to solve with advanced AI solutions, which then drive the rest of 
the project. Based on such challenges, each project consortium should organize a multi -staged 
competition with an increasing level of complexity. In the different stages (see below), third 
parties, either single SMEs or small teams of organisations led by an SME, compete to 
address the challenges with advanced AI solutions. 
For each proposal: 
Stage 1 - Open call: The consortium launches an open call for proposals. A challenge, open 
to all, will allow the selection for Stage 2 of the 10 highest -ranked proposals according to a 
pre-defined selection process and criteria. Each solution is expected to be submitted either by 
a single SME, developer of advanced AI solutions, or a small team of organizations led by 
such SME. 
Stage 2 - Competition among Stage 1 winners: The 10 teams or organisations selected from 
Stage 1 receive a EUR 300,000 FSTP grant each in accordance with their successfully 
selected proposal (which addresses the tasks and challenges defined for this stage by the 
consortium). At the end of Stage 2, the 4 highest-ranked solutions will be selected for the next 
stage according to a pre-defined selection process and criteria. 
Stage 3 – Grand finale (Competition among Stage 2 winners):  The 4 teams or 
organisations selected from Stage 2 receive EUR 2,250,000 FSTP grants each in accordance 
with their successfully selected proposals to address the tasks and challenges for this stage. In 
conjunction, they will prepare for the grand finale that will identify the best performing 
solution at the end of Stage 3 according to the evaluation methodology defined by the 
consortium. 
The consortium should define measures to support the winners in maximizing the impact and 
uptake of their solutions. For instance, after the end of the FSTP grant, the best -performing 
team could be offered the opportunity to conclude partnerships or contracts with the user 
industries leading the consortium. Measures to support the broad uptake of their solutions in 
the whole sector should also be considered. 
Such a multi-staged scheme is expected to be implemented in parallel by the projects funded 
under this action, each addressing a different sector. 
Each proposal, involving several major industry players, should define a clear methodology to 
implement the various steps of the approach, define the specifications of the stages of the 
competitions, timelines, targets, KPIs, and propose a solid evaluation methodology including 
evaluation criteria. The main information should be in the proposal, in addition to all 
mandatory requirements as concerns financial support to third parties. The beneficiaries will 
also be in charge of implementing the evaluation methodology and providing the necessary 
infrastructure/technical support for the participants in the challenges. The consortium 
members are also responsible for ensuring high visibility of the competitions. 
The projects selected from this call, each addressing one of the three targeted sectors, are 
expected to collaborate among themselves to make economies of scale in sharing best 
practices, defining processes for organizing the challenges, ensuring efficient monitoring, 
organizing dissemination and communication activities, etc. Such collaboration among the 
linked actions is expected to be formalized by a collaboration agreement after the grant 
agreement signature. 
For each proposal, a total of EUR 3,000,000 is foreseen to be distributed among the winners 
of Stage 1, in the form of FSTP grants, to prepare for Stage 2. In addition, EUR 9,000,000 is 
foreseen to be distributed among the winners of Stage 2, in the form of FSTP grants, to 
prepare for Stage 3 of the challenge. The proposal is expected to make the case for such 
investment in defining the objectives and expected results. This amount will be distributed 
equally among the 4 winning teams of Stage 2, who are expected to develop further their 
solutions and compete for Stage 3. 
Visibility would be important; therefore, dissemination and communication campaigns are 
key. The proposers are also encouraged to seek sponsorship, which would be key for the 
visibility and prestige of their challenge and to attract the best developers from the eligible 
countries to compete, particularly SMEs, alone or within a team competing for the challenges. 
All proposals are expected to incorporate mechanisms for assessing and demonstrating 
progress, including qualitative and quantitative KPIs, benchmarking, and progress monitoring. 
When possible, proposals should build on and reuse public results from relevant previous 
funded actions. Communicable results should be shared with the European R&D community 
through the AI -on-demand platform and, if necessary, other relevant digital resource 
platforms to bolster the European AI, Data, and Robotics ecosystem by disseminating results 
and best practices. 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on AI, data, and robotics 
(ADRA), and all proposals are expected to allocate tasks for cohesion activities with ADRA 
and the CSA HORIZON-CL4-2025-03-HUMAN-18: GenAI4EU central Hub. 
Proposals should also build on or seek collaboration with relevant projects and develop 
synergies with other relevant International, European, national, or regional initiatives. Projects 
selected in this topic will link to the resources offered by the AI Factories, including the Data 
Labs. The results may be validated in the Testing and Experiment Facilities and further 
deployed via the European Digital Innovation Hubs (EDIHs) and will contribute to the Apply 
AI strategy.