HORIZON-CL4-2027-01-MAT-PROD-42: Unlocking the potential of academic 
intellectual assets for industry, SMEs and startups (CSA) 
Call: INDUSTRY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 1.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 2.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 51. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
 
• Enhanced valorisation of intellectual assets, including dormant patents, from universities 
and public research organisations to support the adoption of green and digital 
technologies by industry, SMEs and start-ups/spinoffs. 
• Development of entrepreneurial skills and increased involvement of students, 
researchers, and innovators in the valorisation of research results. 
• Uptake of effective models and tools to facilitate valorisation of unused IP and 
intellectual assets and access by startups, SMEs, and innovative companies to this 
untapped knowledge in public research organisations.   
Scope: Aligned with the European Union's policy priorities, this action will contribute to 
overcoming the innovation paradox by maximising the impact of public spending in R&I 
through improved knowledge valorisation practices, and facilitating the uptake of green and 
digital technologies by start -ups, spinoffs, and innovative SMEs. By unlocking the untapped 
potential of intellectual assets within universities and public research organisations, and 
leveraging the creativity of students, researchers, and innovators, the action seeks to improve 
value creation opportunities deriving from these assets and bolster the competitiveness of 
European industry.  
The action should explore strategies and implement pilots for actively involving students and 
researchers (including those in social sciences and humanities) in valorising academic IP and 
intellectual assets. These should include hackathons, workshops and larger -scale “summer 
camp” programmes, and foresee the involvement of interested industry partners than can be 
potential adopters. 
The action should also identify and test models and tools for easier IP access and utilisation 
by startups and SMEs. These should cover innovative licensing and other valorisation 
approaches, especially tackling the issue of unused academic patents, as well as the use of AI 
to manage and valorise research results and IP. 
 Proposals submitted under this topic should consider how to exploit synergies with other EU -
funded projects covering intellectual assets management, entrepreneurship, and AI for 
knowledge valorisation. They should also pay particular attention to reducing the gender gap 
and promoting diversity in knowledge valorisation, and include dedicated measures to foster 
gender balance and inclusiveness in this field.