HORIZON-CL4-2026-01-MAT-PROD-31: Efficient capture / purification / utilisation of 
CO2 for the production of competitive products (RIA) (Processes4Planet partnership) 
Call: INDUSTRY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
5.00 and 7.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 43.80 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined 
in the introduction to this Destination, the page limit in part B of the 
General Annexes is exceptionally extended by 3 pages. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 4 -5 and achieve TRL 6 by the 
end of the project – see General Annex B. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 46. 
 
Expected Outcome: Projects are expected to contribute to the following outcomes: 
 
• Achieve a significant reduction in the production costs of CO2 -based products, making 
them competitive with conventionally produced alternatives. This involves optimising 
the integration of CO2 capture, purification, and conversion processes. 
• Demonstrate processes that minimize energy consumption during the entire conversion 
process, leveraging advances in process integration that can shift equilibria and the use 
of renewable electricity and available heat sources. 
• Contribute to the reduction of carbon emissions by enabling the sustainable use of CO2, 
supporting circular economy principles through the valorisation of CO2, possibly 
aligned with CCS.  
Scope: There are only a few products that can be competitively produced from CO2. 
Increased opportunities for CCU from process industry emissions require the development of 
a larger portfolio of potential CO2 -derived products. The higher cost of CO2 -based products 
compared to conventional production routes is mostly driven by the high energy demand 
arising from the thermodynamic constraints of CO2. The smart integration of CO2 capture, 
purification and conversion can enable process optimisation with reduced energy 
consumption as well as reduced capital expenditure. Additionally, innovative processes can 
overcome the inherent equilibrium limitations of CCU production. The development of new 
integrated processes can be an opportunity to optimise the use of electricity, make use of 
available heat sources and relevant infrastructures and thus accelerate the development of 
CO2 valorisation. 
Proposals under this topic are expected to address several of the following points: 
• Develop new methodologies, processes and technologies for the smart integration of 
CO2 capture, purification, and conversion, focusing on reducing energy demand, capital 
expenditure and possible integration with CCS infrastructure requirements. 
• Incorporate renewable energy sources (including the fluctuation of energy availability) 
and innovative energy management strategies to enhance the sustainability and cost -
effectiveness of the CO2 valorisation processes. 
• Identify and integrate available heat sources and existing infrastructures to enhance 
process efficiency and reduce operational costs. 
• Address the constraints related to CO2 conversion processes, employing innovative 
approaches to maximize yield and process efficiency, for example by overcoming low 
equilibrium yields. 
• Conduct comprehensive lifecycle and economic assessments to ensure that the proposed 
solutions are viable, sustainable, and economically attractive.  
Conversion of CO2 to methanol and fuels is considered outside the scope of this topic. 
Showcase improved performance, scalability and cost efficiency of the proposed solution 
through at least one case at laboratory level pilot scale. 
The inclusion of a GHG avoidance methodology 47 is recommended  and should provide 
detailed descriptions of baselines and projected emissions reduction. 
Proposals should include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined in the 
introduction to this Destination, underlining how the proposal will serve the purpose to boost 
industrial decarbonisation technologies supply chain in Europe. Proposals should consider 
representative real industrial sites demonstrating the solutions at least in open -loop 
computations. This should be done in parallel to the actual operation of the plants with 
validation of the benefits by simulations with accurate models. Experiments involving real 
industrial sites are encouraged. Societal- and environmental impact as well as implications for 
the workplace (including skills and organisational change) should be outlined. 
This topic implements the co-programmed European partnership Processes4Planet.