HORIZON-CL4-2027-SPACE-03-84: Space critical equipment for EU non-dependence 
Call: SPACE 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 0.25 
and 0.30 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
project appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 0.49 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The page limit of the application is 80 pages. 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
In order to achieve the expected outcomes, and safeguard the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security, participation is limited to 
legal entities established in Member States, Norway and Iceland. 
Proposals including entities established in countries outside the scope 
specified in the call/topic/action will be ineligible. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed in the paragraph 
above, in order to guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of the 
Union and its Member States, entities established in an eligible country 
listed above, but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a non -
eligible country or by a non -eligible country entity, may not participate in 
the action unless it can be demonstrated, by means of guarantees 
positively assessed by their eligible country of establishment, that their 
participation to the action would not negatively impact the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security. Entities assessed as high-
risk suppliers of mobile network communication equipment within the 
meaning of ‘restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks’ (or entities fully or partially owned or controlled by a high -risk 
supplier) cannot submit guarantees.172 
 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6 by the end of the project. The 
reference TRL definition is the ISO 16290:2013 applicable to the space 
sector. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following exceptions 
apply: 
To ensure a balanced portfolio covering all the development areas 
described in the scope section, grants will be awarded to applications not 
only in order of ranking but at least also to one proposal that is the highest 
ranked within each development area, provided that the applications attain 
all thresholds. 
The evaluation committee will be composed partially by representatives 
of EU institutions. 
Security 
Sensitive Topics 
Some activities resulting from this topic may involve using classified 
background and/or producing of security sensitive results (EUCI and 
SEN). Please refer to the related provisions in section B Security — EU 
classified and sensitive information of the General Annexes. 
 
Expected Outcome: Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected 
outcomes: 
• Reinforcing EU strategic autonomy by reducing non -EU dependencies on critical space 
equipment and related technologies across their entire supply chain; 
• Providing unrestricted access to critical space equipment and related technologies 
relevant for EU space missions; 
• Developing or regaining capacity to operate independently in space by developing 
resilient critical space equipment and related technologies supply chains, relying on EU 
supply chains and/or trustable and reliable supply chains not affected by non -EU export 
restrictions; 
• Enhancing competitiveness by developing products and capabilities reaching equivalent 
or superior performance level than those from outside the EU and compete at worldwide 
level; 
• Opening new opportunities for manufacturers by reducing dependency on non -EU 
export restricted technologies.   
Scope: Unrestricted access to state -of-art space equipment and related technologies is a pre -
requisite for the EU space industry responding to EU space missions. However, especially for 
some families of equipment, the available solutions in EU do not meet the current high -
 
and are not exported outside the eligible countries, nor is access to them from outside the eligible 
countries granted, without the approval of the eligible country in which the legal entity is established.  
performance space requirements and alternative products, sourced from outside EU, are either 
affected by non-EU export control with extra territorial applicability, that limit the access, re -
export or raise challenges in terms of trustable supply chains for the implementation of EU 
space missions with a security dimension. 
Within the frame of this topic it is expected to finance and implement development projects 
aiming at maturing critical space equipment with the final goal of lowering the dependency 
from outside EU, establish a long -term sustainable supply chain and support EU strategic 
autonomy in the space sector. The selection of the supply chains shall reflect this objective. 
Therefore, the supply chain shall preferably be built fully based in EU and when this can only 
be achieved partially (i.e. because of lack of current EU capabilities that cannot be developed 
within the project), services procured from outside EU shall nevertheless ensure that the 
overall supply chain will remain trustable and not affected by non -EU export control. The 
latest scenario is subject to the approval of the granting authority. 
The list of space equipment and related technologies relevant for this topic will be selected 
based on needs related to strategic institutional programs, inputs from relevant European 
stakeholders and the EU Observatory of Critical Technologies. It will be proposed in 2026 
and validated with the HE delegations. 
Space is a low volume market affected by a dynamic industrial landscape compared to the 
terrestrial market therefore, technological spin in and/or bilateral collaborations should be 
enhanced between European non-space and space industries. Furthermore, proposed activities 
should be complementary to national activities and European space agencies. Complementary 
activities should be clearly identified, described and the proposal should report how the 
complementarity is ensured.