HORIZON-CL4-2026-01-MAT-PROD-04: Optimise the usage of resources in a circular 
economy (RIA) (Processes4Planet and Clean Steel partnerships) 
Call: INDUSTRY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
5.00 and 8.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 64.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined 
in the introduction to this Destination, the page limit in part B of the 
General Annexes is exceptionally extended by 3 pages. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 4 -5 and achieve TRL 6 by the 
end of the project – see General Annex B. 
Procedure The procedure is described in General Annex F. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To ensure a balanced portfolio covering also support for the steel 
sector, grants will be awarded to applications not only in order of 
ranking but at least also to two proposals that are the highest ranked 
that focus on the recovery of iron -containing residuals / waste / by -
products using low -CO2 processes; provided that the applications 
attain all thresholds. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 39. 
 
Expected Outcome : Projects are expected to contribute to one or more of the following 
outcomes: 
• Material recycling and upcycling are significantly enhanced compared to the state of the 
art through technology development along the value chain and integrated value chain 
optimisation, leading to reduced GHG and air pollutant emissions; 
• Through the recycling of (iron -containing or other) production waste / residuals / by -
products or optimisation of the recovery of critical / strategic raw materials or 
ferroalloys, the EU’s dependencies on imports from single or very limited numbers of 
country suppliers are reduced, and the yields of recycling of production -waste / by -
products are increased; 
• The usage of raw materials, fresh water and energy is minimised, and ecosystem and 
habitat degradation avoided; 
• The impact of impurities in materials produced for special applications of strategic 
importance for European environmental, social and governance (ESG) 40 sustainability is 
reduced by either minimising their amount or by modification of impurity -material-
structure, morphology, and properties; 
• Cost efficient use of resources is reached with minimal energy usage and optimized use 
of labour.   
Scope: The topic aims to optimise the efficiency of materials, water and energy use by 
recycling and upcycling of side streams from production and end -of-use waste, to become 
more competitive, safe and sustainable. Material production becomes less dependent on 
imports and / or use of non-renewable materials by improving recovery along the value chain, 
developing and upscaling low -CO2 processes to recover materials, including to replace 
current efficient but CO2-intensive recycling. 
The continuity and high resource demand for materials and energy of industrial processes 
need dependable availability of resources. The attainment of this target requires moving away 
from primary, often expensive, and rare resources, by the re -integration and valorisation of 
secondary resources (end-of-use waste) and industrial side -streams into the process industries 
as feedstock. Priority should be given to streams that contain critical and insufficiently 
available raw materials, and to streams with a large carbon footprint or a large required 
energy input for their production.  
 
The development of technologies should encompass the entire value chain from the 
collection, dismantling, sorting and separation of waste to the processing of the streams and 
the production of new high -quality materials. The demonstration of the innovative, efficient, 
and economically viable technologies is required, considering a scale and conditions that can 
give reliable indications on the real -world economic potential. Minimizing the intake of 
energy and water should be considered. 
Proposals under this topic are expected to address at least 3 of the following points: 
• Increase the share of sustainable feed streams of the process industries from end -of-use 
waste and/or foster circular material flows in house and/or across sites of iron-containing 
and other residuals / waste / by-products, avoiding incineration or disposal, including the 
development / upscaling of low CO2 processes with reduced negative impact on air 
quality; 
• Improve product designs including by-products for easier re-cycling and upcycling; 
• Enhance existing technologies for a more efficient residual / waste / by -products 
collection, sorting, classification, characterisation, treatment, processing and re -use. This 
can include development / improvement of end -of-life recycling processes targeting 
waste, scrap, dust and sludges for possible use for high -performance high -reliability 
products; 
• Recover relevant secondary raw materials, including critical ones, and target maximum 
process efficiency; 
• Reduce the usage of scarce and critical raw materials in the production processes, while 
at the same time preserving ecosystem and reducing pressures on biodiversity that would 
be caused by extraction; 
• Reduce the number of manufacturing stages by shortening of production processes, 
leading to a reduction in the energy consumption; and/or consider 
approaches/technologies for optimising efficiency in terms of water use. 
• Understand the effect of specific contaminants on the properties of materials produced 
from secondary feedstock and develop technologies for their removal if needed, also in 
view of the need for pre-treatment and secondary manufacturing steps. 
• Where relevant, include analytical techniques for micro - and/or nano-characterisation of 
materials to gain the necessary knowledge to influence processes and allow dedicated 
modelling.   
Showcase improved performance, scalability and cost efficiency of the proposed solution 
through at least one case at laboratory level pilot scale. Digitalisation should be included 
when effective, but it must not be targeted independently from the development and 
validation of the necessary process technologies. 
The re-integration of side streams in the production cycle can take place within one sector or 
across sectors (industrial symbiosis). Impacts of regulations must be considered and proposals 
for their modification and/or enhancement should be suggested where required. 
Proposals should include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined in the 
introduction to this Destination. 
This topic implements the co-programmed European Partnerships Processes4Planet and Clean 
Steel.