HORIZON-CL4-2026-04-DIGITAL-EMERGING-17: Fostering 2 -Dimensional 
Materials (2DM) based emerging and enabling technologies (CSA) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 1.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 1.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 134. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
• Maximize the impact of EU -funded R&I in 2DM -based emerging and enabling 
technologies. 
• Reinforce the related R&I community in Europe.  
 
Scope: Proposals should provide key support functions fostering a dynamic R&I community 
in 2DM -based emerging and enabling technologies, facilitating synergies and collaboration 
among relevant EU -funded projects – including those of the Graphene Flagship - and 
associated entities. 
Proposals should provide support to the relevant actors in R&I roadmapping, innovation, 
standardization activities in 2DM-based technologies 
Proposals should establish and keep up -to-date European and global R&I and funding 
landscapes in 2DM-based technologies. 
Proposals should relay and amplify communication and dissemination activities of the actors 
in the domain of graphene and other 2DMs. 
Proposals should foster interactions and synergies with relevant national and regional 
initiatives, Partnerships, in particular the Innovative advanced materials for Europe 
partnership, projects such as InnoMatSyn, and infrastructures in the domain. 
Beneficiaries that intend to transfer ownership or grant an exclusive licence must formally 
notify the granting authority (i.e. DG -CNECT and HaDEA) before the intended transfer or 
licensing takes place and the granting authority may up to four years after the end of the 
action object to a transfer of ownership or the exclusive licensing of results.