HORIZON-CL4-2026-04-DIGITAL-EMERGING-08: Apply AI: Robotics for 
Manufacturing: Advancing Core Skills through Technical Challenges (RIA) 
(Partnership in AI, Data and Robotics) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
18.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 18.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to achieve the expected outcomes, and safeguard the Union’s 
strategic assets, interests, autonomy, and security, it is important to 
avoid a situation of technological dependency on a non -EU source, in a 
global context that requires the EU to take action to build on its 
strengths, and to carefully assess and address any strategic weaknesses, 
vulnerabilities and high -risk dependencies which put at risk the 
attainment of its ambitions. For this reason, participation is limited to 
legal entities established in Member States, Iceland and Norway and the 
following additional associated countries: Canada, Israel, Republic of 
Korea, New Zealand, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. In addition, 
entities established in third countries which may become associated to 
Horizon Europe during 2026 and 2027 may be eligible to participate in 
this topic if the third country is identified for this topic as an eligible 
country in the List of Participating Countries in Horizon Europe at the 
time of submission of the application 115. In any case, the association 
agreement to the Programme must apply by the time of the signature of 
the grant agreement. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed in the paragraph 
above, in order to guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of 
the Union and its Member States, entities established in an eligible 
country listed above, but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a 
non-eligible country or by a non -eligible country entity, may not 
participate in the action unless it can be demonstrated, by means of 
guarantees positively assessed by their eligible country of establishment, 
that their pa rticipation to the action would not negatively impact the 
Union’s strategic assets, interests, autonomy, or security. Entities 
assessed as high -risk suppliers of mobile network communication 
equipment within the meaning of ‘restrictions for the protection of 
European communication networks’ (or entities fully or partially owned 
or controlled by a high-risk supplier) cannot submit guarantees.116 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 2 and achieve TRL 5 by the end 
of the project – see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Beneficiaries must provide financial support to third parties. The support 
to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. 
FSTP grants may be provided to either a single SME, research 
organisation or public body secondary or higher education establishment 
or a small team composed of such organizations. 
 
FSTP amounts: 
• The maximum amount to be granted per FSTP grant (whether 
provided to one legal entity or a team of legal entities) is EUR 
200,000 in stage 2 and EUR 1,000,000 in stage 3. 
• The amount of EUR 200,000 in stage 2 is justified as the 
challenge and corresponding tasks defined for this stage must be 
complex enough in order to take the best and most informed 
decision in the selection for the next stage based on a convincing 
technical prototype/proof of concept that reaches sufficient level 
of performance in terms of scale and maturity.  
• The amount of EUR 1,000,000 in stage 3 is justified by the 
ambition of reaching significant technology progress and 
innovation, defined in the expected outcome of the call, including 
the need for the selected projects to scale their solutions to the 
maturity expected. 
 The maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 
1,200,000.  
 In accordance with Annex 5 of the grant agreement “SPECIFIC RULES 
FOR CARRYING OUT THE ACTION ( — ARTICLE 18) 
Implementation in case of restrictions due to strategic assets, interests, 
autonomy or security of the EU and its Member States ”, by default 
beneficiaries must ensure that, inter alia , no recipient of FSTP is (i) 
established in a country which is not an eligible country (as identified in 
the specific conditions for eligibility) or (ii) controlled by such countries 
or entities from such countries (di rectly or indirectly as per the specific 
conditions for eligibility). In line with the possibility for the granting 
authority to agree otherwise, as concerns control of SMEs or private 
research organisations that participate as recipients of FSTP, 
beneficiaries must only ensure that such entities are not directly 
majority-owned (i.e., more than 50% of the capital) by entities 
established in non-eligible countries.  
 
Expected Outcome: The Apply AI Strategy highlights the need to accelerate the uptake of AI -
powered robotics through sectoral pipelines that connect research and deployment. By 
developing advanced robotics skills based on foundation models and creating adaptable 
frameworks that can be transferred across different industrial contexts, including automotive, 
this topic will provide common tools and building blocks to strengthen those pipelines and 
ensure broad industrial relevance. 
Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: 
• Development of advanced robotics skills (e.g. high precision autonomous pick and place 
manipulation, autonomous navigation in unstructured environments) using robotics 
foundation models, tailored for manufacturing. Creation of a comprehensive framework 
for general purpose and flexible robotics skills development with industry -relevant 
challenges, evaluation metrics and success criteria. 
• Facilitation of widespread deployment of robotics in manufacturing especially SMEs, 
through modular, adaptable, and reconfigurable solutions built on robotics foundation 
models, to meet evolving production needs  
Scope: The proposed project aims to significantly enhance robotics capabilities in 
manufacturing by developing advanced robotics skills (for example, task and environment 
aware autonomous pick and place with high precision and speed, human -robot collaboration, 
etc). 
By leveraging the use of next -generation AI, including generative AI, to enable robots to 
better adapt to real -world environments and interact with human operators, and focusing on 
reconfigurability, the project will develop industry -agnostic solutions that can be easily 
adapted to different manufacturing environments. 
The project will create a comprehensive framework for robotics skills development in 
manufacturing, including the initial definition of three technical challenges that must be 
clearly described at proposal stage, with evidence of their industrial relevance and potential 
impact. The detailed specification and design of these challenges may be further refined 
during the first phase of the project in collaboration with industry partners. 
The project will organize a multi -stage competition for each of the three identified technical 
challenges. Each stage of the competition is expected to present an increased level of 
complexity compared to the previous one. The approach for designing the competitive 
process, including the use of FSTP, should aim at maximising the impact. 
One of the key use cases for this project will be the automotive industry, which should be 
explicitly included in proposals either as a primary focus or as a dedicated use case, 
demonstrating how advanced robotics can enhance production efficiency and adaptability in 
this sector. Other use cases alongside the automotive one are allowed and encouraged, to 
demonstrate the industry-agnostic nature and the transferability of the developed solutions to 
different industrial contexts. 
User-industry companies from the manufacturing sector (including automotive) should be 
core partners in the consortium. They should demonstrate a genuine interest in the project 
results and actively support the FSTP recipients in achieving powerful and exploitable results 
that benefit their industry. 
Organization of the Challenge: 
Stage 1 – Open call: The consortium launches an open call for proposals. A challenge, open 
to all, will allow the selection of the 10 highest -ranked proposals for each of the three 
technical robotics skills, according to a pre -defined selection process and criteria. Each 
solution competing for the challenge can be submitted either by a single SME, research 
organisation or public body secondary or higher education establishment, developer of 
robotics solutions, or a small team of organizations. 
Stage 2 – Competition among Stage 1 winners:  The 10 teams or organisations selected 
from Stage 1 will receive a EUR 200,000 FSTP grant each in accordance with their 
successfully selected proposal (which addresses the tasks and challenges defined for this stage 
by the consortium). At the end of Stage 2, the 3 highest -ranked competing solutions will be 
selected for the next stage according to a pre-defined selection process and criteria. 
Stage 3 – Grand Finale (competition among Stage 2 winners):  The 3 best teams or 
organisations selected from Stage 2 will receive a EUR 1,000,000 FSTP grant each in 
accordance with their successfully selected proposals to address the tasks and challenges 
defined for this stage. In conjunction, they will prepare for the grand finale that will identify 
the best performing solution at the end of Stage 3 according to the evaluation methodology 
defined by the consortium. 
The consortium should define measures to support the team winning the grand finale in 
maximising the impact and uptake of its solutions. 
Proposals must include a draft exploitation plan outlining how the solutions developed by the 
FSTP recipients will be taken up, with concrete support from the user -industry partners to 
ensure industrial relevance and future exploitation. 
This scheme is repeated for each of the three technical challenges. 
The consortium will ensure high visibility of the competitions, including possible 
sponsorships, and will seek to attract the best developers from the EU and associated 
countries to compete, particularly SMEs, alone or within a team competing for the challenges. 
All proposals are expected to incorporate mechanisms for assessing and demonstrating 
progress, including qualitative and quantitative KPIs, benchmarking, and progress monitoring. 
This should include the methodology to accompany the challenge participants to the various 
stages during the project and the assessment methodology during the various selection stages. 
When possible, proposals should build on and reuse public results from relevant previous 
funded actions. Communicable results should be shared with the European R&D community 
through the AI -on-demand platform and, if necessary, other relevant digital resource 
platforms to bolster the European AI, Data, and Robotics ecosystem by disseminating results 
and best practices. 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership on AI, data, and robotics 
(ADRA), and all proposals are expected to allocate tasks for cohesion activities with ADRA 
Proposals should also build on or seek collaboration with relevant projects and develop 
synergies with other relevant International, European, national, or regional initiatives. 
AI4GOOD 
Proposals are invited against the following topic(s):