HORIZON-CL4-2026-01-MAT-PROD-12: Technologies for innovative extraction of 
critical raw materials (RIA) 
Call: INDUSTRY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
5.00 and 7.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 19.00 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined 
in the introduction to this Destination, the page limit in part B of the 
General Annexes is exceptionally extended by 3 pages. 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
To increase EU resilience in raw materials supply chains and thus 
reduce the serious risk to the Union's strategic assets, economic and 
societal interests, autonomy and security associated with the current EU 
reliance on a few third countries for critical raw materials, by increasing 
sustainable and responsible sourcing of primary and secondary raw 
materials necessary to enable the green and digital transition and in 
alignment with the objectives of the Critical Raw Materials Act 64 , 
 
participation in this topic is limited to legal entities established in 
Member States, associated countries, OECD countries, African Union 
Member States, MERCOSUR, CARIFORUM, Andean Community and 
countries with which the EU has concluded strategic partnerships on 
raw materials 65 as well as trade agreements (or association/economic 
partnership or equivalent agreements, including the new Clean Trade 
and Investment Partnerships) containing raw materials cooperation 
provisions (i.e. Energy and Raw materials chapters) 66. The choice of 
these countries was made taking into consideration the development of 
strategic international partnerships on raw materials and avoidance of 
reinforcing existing over -dependencies, as well as the importance of 
involving partners committed to pursuing open trade in such materials. 
Proposals including legal entities which are not established in the 
countries that fall under the criteria above will be ineligible. 
For the duly justified and exceptional reasons listed above, in order to 
guarantee the protection of the strategic interests of the Union and its 
Member States, entities established in an eligible country listed above, 
but which are directly or indirectly controlled by a non -eligible country 
or a non-eligible country entity, shall not participate in the action. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 3 -4 and achieve TRL 5 by the 
end of the project – see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 67. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
 
• Increasing availability of efficient, cost-effective and innovative raw materials extraction 
technologies in the medium and long term. 
• Increasing the potential for primary sourcing ofEU based of raw materials deposits; 
• Improving the responsible supply of raw materials to the EU, and contributing to the 
Critical Raw Materials Act (CRMA)68 objectives (Article 1). 
• Substantially reducing greenhouse gases (GHGs) and air pollutant emissions intensity 
per ton of the extracted material (metal, metal content, concentrate, mineral) while 
improving the impacts on habitat protection, ecosystem health and biodiversity.   
Scope: Actions should develop and validate new sustainable concepts and technological 
solutions, for mining of complex or difficult to access mineral deposits, including abandoned 
mining sites, particularly addressing the challenges of accessibility, efficiency, industrial 
viability, safety and environmental and health impacts, including but not limited to water use, 
water, soil and air pollution, deforestation, biodiversity, ecosystem health, erosion, 
desertification, and GHG intensity of extraction. 
Actions should assess how their technological solutions can deliver measurable biodiversity 
outcomes 
The mining industry and users of targeted raw materials should assume a prominent role in 
the proposed actions, supported by adequate allocation of resources. The actions should duly 
justify the relevance of all targeted minerals and metals. Priority are the EU critical raw 
materials. Deep sea mining is not in the scope of this topic. 
Actions should envisage clustering activities with other relevant selected projects for cross -
projects co -operation, consultations and joint activities on cross -cutting issues and share of 
results as well as participating in joint meetings and communication events. To this end 
proposals should foresee a dedicated work package and/or task, and earmark the appropriate 
resources accordingly. 
Proposals submitted under this topic must include a business case and a credible exploitation 
strategy, covering all required elements as outlined in the introduction to this Destination. 
International cooperation is encouraged with countries with which the EU has signed 
Strategic Partnerships on raw materials, especially with Ukraine.69 
 
