HORIZON-CL4-2026-01-MAT-PROD-23: Accelerating the discovery and development 
of chemicals and innovative advanced materials through digitalisation and artificial 
intelligence (IA) (Innovative Advanced Materials for the EU partnership) 
Call: INDUSTRY 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
13.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 50.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Admissibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex A. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In order to include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined 
in the introduction to this Destination, the page limit in part B of the 
General Annexes is exceptionally extended by 3 pages. 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
In line with the “ restriction on control in innovation actions in critical 
technology areas ” delineated in General Annex B of the General 
Annexes, entities established in an eligible country but which are 
directly or indirectly controlled by China or by a legal entity 
established in China are not eligible to participate in the action. 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or 
as an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 5 and achieve TRL 7 by the end 
of the project – see General Annex B. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome:  
• Accelerating the discovery and development process for innovative advanced materials 
and chemicals through digital tools developed in Europe;  
• Innovation workflows which include design of experiment and/or design of simulation 
• Supporting the operationalisation of the SSbD framework; 
• Making a step change in the risk assessment of chemicals and advanced materials in 
Europe.   
Scope: Proposals should accelerate the pathway to market of new substances (chemicals or 
advanced materials) with superior or novel functionalities. This can be achieved with novel 
tools or proofs of concept using digital methods to accelerate development of new materials 
and demonstration of their properties. Where possible this should explore collaboration with 
other initiatives such as the Materials Commons for Europe or DIGIPASS, contributing data, 
modelling, digital tools applicable to the design, development, production, manufacturing, use 
and end of life phases, which connect to repeatable workflows. These workflows and tools 
may include the use of artificial intelligence as well as self -driving labs and their 
interconnection and design of experiment/design of simulation methods. They should also 
drive innovation in risk assessment, new test methods and support and facilitate the 
operationalisation and use of the SSbD framework 31. Projects should include demonstrators 
which help to validate the materials development in realistic conditions. 
By doing so, new innovative advanced materials (IAMs) with superior or novel functionalities 
and alternatives to substances of concern should be developed more rapidly in Europe. In 
addition, digital feedback loops ranging from requirements and information from production 
processes and scale -up, to manufacturing and integration into products, should be developed 
to accelerate market uptake. Innovative digital tools to speed up risk assessment and thereby 
market access of chemicals and advanced materials may also be addressed. 
Interoperable workflows based on shared standards and dedicated ontologies, in particular 
through collaboration with the Materials Commons for Europe, should help to reduce the cost 
 
of the digital transition for industry with respect to circularity and safe and sustainable by 
design, e.g. by reducing the risk for adopters and vendors, and through modular tools that can 
be extended to new application domains without a major redesign. Tools should foster 
workflows in that ensure high -quality, well -structured and documented primary FAIR data 
and FAIR digital tools and workflows, enabling the re -use and/or streamlining of large data 
sets, facilitating academic and industrial collaborations and integrating AI and other digital 
technologies. Synergies with the SSbD toolboxes can also be foreseen including the 
adaptation and validation 32 of the test methods for advanced materials. Proposals could also 
facilitate the generation of relevant data and where relevant sharing of data with the Common 
Data Platform for Chemicals. Where relevant, proposals should actively contribute to and 
cooperate with the EU Innovation and Substitution Hub(s). Proposals should allocate the 
necessary resources to the proposed activities. 
Proposals should include a business case and exploitation strategy, as outlined in the 
introduction to this Destination. 
Proposals could consider the involvement of the European Commission's Joint Research 
Centre (JRC), whose contribution could consist of added value to the operationalisation of the 
SSbD framework. 
This topic implements the co -programmed European Partnership Innovative Advanced 
Materials for the EU (IAM4EU).