HORIZON-CL4-2027-04-HUMAN-02: Create a thriving and competitive Virtual 
Worlds and Web 4.0 ecosystem (CSA) (Virtual Worlds Partnership) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 
3.00 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 3.00 million. 
Type of Action Coordination and Support Actions 
Eligibility conditions The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Legal and financial 
set-up of the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following 
exceptions apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of 
results, as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
 
Expected Outcome: The co-programmed European Partnership for Virtual Worlds will help to 
develop and promote a thriving industrial and end -user ecosystem in the EU, covering all the 
aspects of the virtual worlds value chain. It will also actively engage with industrial and 
societal sectors to provide access to a broad range of resources, including funding, expertise 
and technology. 
Project results are expected to contribute to the following expected outcomes:   
1. Review and, if necessary, update the Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda (SRIA) 
for Virtual Worlds in Europe, for useful, open, interoperable, inclusive, sustainable and 
trustworthy virtual worlds systems and applications, ensuring these reflect EU values 
and principles. 
2. Strengthening of the European Virtual Worlds Partnership by providing continuous 
support. 
3. Reinforcement of the competitive ecosystem, with European companies playing a 
leading role in the adoption and acceptance, and in the development and deployment of 
Virtual Worlds technologies. 
4. Reinforced links among initiatives in virtual worlds in Horizon Europe, Digital Europe 
Programme, and other programmes at EU, national and regional levels. 
5. Widespread awareness and outreach programmes. 
6. Increased adoption of virtual worlds that are open, accessible and inclusive, 
interdisciplinary, safe and respect ethical values and European legal framework, 
including regarding privacy, security in all Member States and Associated Countries. 
7. Strengthening and promotion of standardisation methods for virtual worlds technologies 
and in support of the EU regulatory framework.  
Scope: The objective of the CSA is to further develop and reinforce the community by 
strengthening and supporting the Virtual Worlds Partnership and its Strategic Research and 
Innovation Agenda for Virtual Worlds (SRIA). The CSA will also lay the grounds for a strong 
and inclusive network bringing together academia, industry, public actors and end -users, 
including major industrial European sectors and all relevant stakeholders. The CSA will 
ensure close coordination at regional, national and European level. 
The CSA will also strongly continue to promote the adoption of Virtual Worlds technologies 
and solutions in all Member States and Associated Countries, with particular emphasis on 
geographical aspect and across the value chain. 
To this end, the CSA will develop and implement outreach programmes aiming at better 
understanding and raising awareness to create acceptance and trustworthiness of Virtual 
Worlds solutions. 
The CSA will also support standardisation efforts to support the uptake of interoperable, open, 
trustworthy and ethical Virtual Worlds solution, by mobilising and bringing stakeholders 
together and, when needed, organising European representation in existing or new 
standardisation working groups in support of the Commission regulatory framework. 
Proposals should involve and be driven by representatives of the relevant actors of the field 
(e.g., academia, RTOs, industry including SMEs). 
The Commission considers that proposals with an overall duration of typically 36 months 
would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not 
preclude submission and selection of proposals requesting other durations. 
Proposals should involve the effective contribution of Social Sciences and Humanities (SSH) 
disciplines and SSH experts, in order to produce meaningful and significant effects enhancing 
the societal impact of the related research activities. 
This CSA should be prepared, managed and coordinated by key stakeholders in this field and 
directly support the Virtual Worlds Partnership. 
Beneficiaries that intend to transfer ownership or grant an exclusive licence must formally 
notify the granting authority (i.e. DG -CNECT and HaDEA) before the intended transfer or 
licensing takes place and the granting authority may up to four years after the end of the 
action object to a transfer of ownership or the exclusive licensing of results. 
This topic is implemented through the co -programmed European Partnership for Virtual 
Worlds and all proposals are expected to allocate tasks to cohesion activities with the 
Partnership on Virtual Worlds and funded actions related to this partnership, including the 
CSA: HORIZON-CL4-2025-03-HUMAN-17. 
This topic implements the co-programmed European Partnership on Virtual Worlds.