HORIZON-CL4-2026-SPACE-03-61: Scientific analysis and exploitation of space data 
Call: SPACE 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of between EUR 
1.50 and 2.50 million would allow these outcomes to be addressed 
appropriately. Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and 
selection of a proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 3.92 million. 
Type of Action Research and Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4 by the end of the project. The 
reference TRL definition is the ISO 16290:2013 applicable to the space 
sector. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 166. 
 
Expected Outcome : Project results are expected to contribute to the following expected 
outcomes: 
• European space science breakthroughs fostered by data analysis and exploitation of 
European missions (incl. low -cost/small satellite) and instruments, in conjunction, when 
relevant, with international missions. This data may also originate from European in -
orbit validation experiments with a focus on space science and exploration. 
 
• A higher number of European scientific publications based on space data, high-level data 
products made available through appropriate archives, and tools and methods developed 
for the advanced processing of data. 
• Increased collaboration of scientific teams both within and outside Europe across 
different domains, adding value to existing activities on European and international 
levels and enhancing and broadening research partnerships. 
• European scientific excellence and development of leading -edge scientific research in 
Europe.   
Scope: The aim of this topic is the analysis (including validation) and exploitation of acquired 
and available data provided by scientific and exploration instruments and missions in their 
pre-operative, operative, post-operative or data exploitation phase, focusing on astronomy and 
astrophysics, cosmology, heliophysics, deep space and solar system exploration, ensuring 
complementarity with activities already supported by agencies during development phases. 
Such data may also originate from CubeSat and small satellite missions for advancing space 
science and exploration. 
More specifically, data to be analysed are expected to result from science and exploration 
missions (including cubesat to small satellite missions) from ESA, national space agencies, 
research organisations and universities missions. Earth observing missions are not considered 
in the scope of this topic. This analysis may require innovative and advanced data processing 
techniques, the use of advanced artificial intelligence techniques, novel statistical approaches, 
multidimensional data fusion while optimizing the use of advanced computing hardware 
architectures, as well as novel data (re)presentation and visualization techniques. 
Projects may rely on data available through ESA Space Science Archives when possible or 
other means (e.g. instrumentation teams). Combination and correlation of this data with 
international scientific mission data, as well as with relevant data produced by ground -based 
infrastructures all over the world, is encouraged to further increase the scientific return and to 
enable new research activities using existing data sets. These activities shall add scientific 
value through analysis of the data, leading to scientific publications and higher -level data 
products, tools and methods. When possible, enhanced data products should be suitable for 
feeding back into the ESA Space Science archives. Resulting analyses should help preparing 
future European and international missions. 
International cooperation is encouraged in particular with countries active in space 
exploration and space science. 
In this topic, the integration of the gender dimension (sex and gender analysis) in research and 
innovation content should be addressed only if relevant in relation to the objectives of the 
research effort. 
