HORIZON-CL4-2026-04-DIGITAL-EMERGING-09: Advanced Local Digital Twins 
using AI for Early Warning and Preparedness (IA) 
Call: DIGITAL 
Specific conditions 
Expected EU 
contribution per 
project 
The Commission estimates that an EU contribution of around EUR 6.00 
million would allow these outcomes to be addressed appropriately. 
Nonetheless, this does not preclude submission and selection of a 
proposal requesting different amounts. 
Indicative budget The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 6.00 million. 
Type of Action Innovation Actions 
Eligibility 
conditions 
The conditions are described in General Annex B. The following 
exceptions apply: 
Due to the scope of this topic, international organisations with 
headquarters in a Member State or Horizon Europe Associated Country 
are exceptionally eligible for funding. 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the 
consortium selected for funding as a beneficiary with zero funding, or as 
an associated partner. The JRC will not participate in the preparation 
and submission of the proposal - see General Annex B. 
If projects use satellite -based earth observation, positioning, navigation 
and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of 
Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may 
additionally be used). 
Subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication 
networks. 
Technology 
Readiness Level 
Activities are expected to start at TRL 5 and achieve TRL 7 by the end 
of the project – see General Annex B. 
Legal and 
financial set-up of 
the Grant 
Agreements 
The rules are described in General Annex G. The following exceptions 
apply: 
The granting authority may, up to 4 years after the end of the action, 
object to a transfer of ownership or to the exclusive licensing of results, 
as set out in the specific provision of Annex 5. 
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the 
Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions 
under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation (2021 -2027) – and in actions under the 
Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy 
Community (2021-2025) 117. 
 
Expected Outcome: Open AI models that can help predict, respond to, and mitigate impacts 
before a disaster occurs, enabling proactive decision -making and effective disaster 
management effectively.  
Protection of citizens from natural hazards through proactive measures, preparedness 
strategies, and urban resilience, planning 
Project results are expected to contribute to one of the following outcomes: 
• Enhanced protection of citizens from the natural hazard of flooding by facilitating 
proactive decision-making and effective disaster management through open AI -driven 
models for urban resilience strategies and planning that can help predict, respond to, and 
mitigate impacts before a disaster occurs. 
• Improved modelling and prediction of urban and riverine flooding by expanding the 
capabilities of Local Digital Twins  with sophisticated AI algorithms and relevant data 
detailing hydrological and hydraulic processes. 
• Strengthened integration of diverse and essential datasets  including detailed terrain, 
land cover, urban features, soil data, and real -time meteorological information (rainfall 
and temperature, river geometry, and flow) sourced from national hydrometric networks, 
urban drainage infrastructure, and flood protection assets. This integration aims to 
enhance flood analysis, simulation, and preparedness particularly in response to climate 
change and flood scenarios like heavy rainfall impacting nearby river basins.  
The projects will leverage high -resolution climatic and meteorological models to assess 
extreme weather, while also drawing on relevant initiatives such as the Global Flood 
Awareness System and Destination Earth. 
Scope: In line with the Apply AI Strategy, proposals should develop and implement projects 
that advance innovative AI algorithms and models from concept to large -scale testing and 
validation. These solutions will be applied to the creation of Local Digital Twins for flood 
preparedness, enabling the simulation of flood scenarios, identification of areas at risk, and 
estimation of potential damage. 
• Proposals should focus on the development of innovative AI algorithms that move 
beyond rigid functions, employing instead a dynamic set of descriptive building features 
derived from digital models (e.g., geometrical parameters, urban morphology, socio -
 
economic indicators). These algorithms should be integrated with advanced, high -
resolution hazard models — including hydrological and hydraulic models — tailored to 
the specific characteristics of the local area. 
• The Local Digital Twins will enable:         
 Flood damage models capable of calculating building -scale impacts, forming the 
basis for damage hotspot maps.    
 Interactive user interfaces that allow components to be exchanged, modified, and 
reconfigured to estimate flood damage under various urban planning and risk 
management scenarios — for example, assessing the feasibility of proposed or 
existing constructions in flood -prone zones and recommending targeted mitigation 
strategies.   
The scope of this topic includes a strong research and innovation component aimed at the 
prototyping, testing, and large -scale validation of tailored AI algorithms designed to model 
multiple disaster types, with a focus on operational deployment in real -world contexts. .It is 
recommended to prioritise the use of frugal (and local) AI as much as possible. This approach 
will both reduce greenhouse emissions -an indirect driver of climate -related disasters - and 
ensure that the tools remain functional in environments with limited connectivity. 
Proposals should take into account the expertise of the European Commission's Joint 
Research Centre (JRC)118, particularly its experience in developing global systems for disaster 
and risk management and analyse the potential uptake of the project outcomes by the 
Copernicus Emergency Management Service. In addition, proposals should align with for the 
2025 Mission call on Local Digital Twin for urban planning, ensuring interoperability and 
complementarity with related European initiatives. 
The project results should be modular for reuse in locations outside Europe considering 
constraints on deployment of AI solutions in low - and middle-income countries. Therefore, 
the project results shall be open source as much as possible and transferable through open 
platforms.   
1. Focus will be on open -source solutions (both software and hardware) and their 
integration into existing platforms (e.g. EDIC 119) to ensure replicability of the results 
and portability in different areas. 
2. The proposal should support open -source software and open hardware design. 
Applicants are encouraged to support, open access to data, access to testing and 
operational infrastructures as well as an IPR regime ensuring lasting impact and 
reusability of results.   
 
Beneficiaries that intend to transfer ownership or grant an exclusive licence must formally 
notify the granting authority (i.e. DG -CNECT and HaDEA) before the intended transfer or 
licensing takes place and the granting authority may up to four years after the end of the 
action object to a transfer of ownership or the exclusive licensing of results.